The worldwide demand for freshwater is increasing rapidly while water resources are becoming increasingly scarce. Exacerbating this imbalance is the deteriorated state of the water distribution infrastructure, which is afflicted with leakages of 15-25% of the total water supply. Consequently, the severe deterioration of this infrastructure poses a serious challenge to water sustainability. Leakage detection is an essential, but challenging, aspect of water supply management. Real-time monitoring schemes based on the changes in the vibration characteristics of the water pipelines have potential to detect leaks in a timely manner. Embedded wireless sensor networks are essential for such monitoring schemes; however, model designs and architectures of currently available wireless sensing networks remain severely constrained by the small energy reserves of environmentally-harmful batteries that last only for a limited period of time. This CyberSEES project is exploring possible hardware and software schemes for embedded wireless sensing systems, powered by locally harvested energy, to detect leakages in water distribution systems.<br/><br/>Leveraging a real-size, experimental pipeline set-up, this project explores (1) the energy harvesting potential in the water distribution system environment for use in sustainable powering of smart embedded sensing networks; (2) the use of vibration sensing-based methods to detect and locate pipeline leaks in water distribution systems; and (3) energy-efficient sensing and communication schemes suitable for use in constrained and variable energy environments. With advancements on several fronts, the research outcomes will make it possible to build smarter and adaptable water supply infrastructures for a more sustainable future.<br/><br/>By adopting the developed sustainable monitoring set-up, water utilities will be equipped to prevent leakage of treated fresh water, conserve energy, and potentially prevent catastrophic failures in water distribution systems through early-detection of defects. The developed wireless sensing-based monitoring scheme can be easily adapted to other harsh, dynamic and energy-constrained environments for defect detection. The impact of this project on research infrastructure, especially the expansion of the pipeline test bed on the Clemson University campus, is significant as it offers several follow-up research and educational opportunities. This project also offers research opportunities for undergraduates and underrepresented students in addition to graduate student mentoring.
A strong workforce in the geosciences is needed today more than ever if America is to overcome resource security challenges for water, food, and energy in the face of global change and widespread land use transitions. Despite this critical need, there is a deficit of students opting to pursue geoscience-related career paths. The overarching goal of this project is to increase the number of students at Clemson University intending to pursue a geoscience-related career by providing opportunities for both Geology majors and non-majors to engage in career-relevant geoscience research. The approach that is being taken focuses on accessing the affective domain of learning as a mechanism to increase student engagement with the geosciences, via student motivation, emotion, and connections to Earth. Targeting non-geoscience majors in this project is an important goal as they represent a large population of students that are often exposed to the geosciences through service (e.g., general education) courses, but rarely have an opportunity to participate in field or research activities, both of which are well known to be important doorways to careers in geoscience. This project enables thousands of students to be exposed to geoscience research and STEM communication, thereby making a significant impact on the development of the geoscience workforce in South Carolina. A new Industrial Affiliates program further engages students with existing geoscience professionals to promote student selection of careers in geoscience-related areas. <br/><br/>This project addresses the deficit in the geoscience workforce by creating a three tier extracurricular approach to gradually transform non-majors into geoscientists by leveraging the existing undergraduate research component of Clemson's Geology Bachelor's (BS) degree. The first tier of engages non-major students enrolled in geoscience service courses in extracurricular inquiry-based thinking that draws on the research activities of Clemson's undergraduate geoscience majors. Building on this effort, students recruited to the second tier of engagement take part in non-major oriented project-based learning activities that utilize a "citizen science" approach to data collection, geoscience problem solving with GIS, or geoscience communication and outreach. Students transitioned into the third tier of the program take part in formal undergraduate geoscience research projects. Investing in Clemson's current research program not only strengthens research experiences for current Geology majors, but also provides more diverse, engaging and interesting projects to attract non-majors. For example, the project enables cutting-edge science questions to be addressed in areas ranging across the fields of climate change, water sustainability, geomechanics, and geochemistry. The newly-developed Industrial Affiliates program further strengthens the outcomes of both this project and the undergraduate BS degree program through: professional lectures, co-mentoring of student projects and internships, and evaluation of student preparation for careers in the geosciences. Building on the existing BS degree program also allows the project to leverage Clemson's geoscience majors as ambassadors to non-majors and geoscience professionals, thereby strengthening the overall geoscience community in South Carolina. The activities in this project build on best-practices developed in the geoscience education literature and contribute to this body of research by studying how the affective domain of learning contributes to student motivation in pursuing a career in the geosciences.
Mobile health (mHealth) technology promises to improve quality of life, improve individual and public health, and reduce healthcare costs. Although mHealth devices and applications are proliferating, challenges remain. With a focus on usability, manageability, interoperability, availability, security, and privacy, the Amulet project has worked to engineer the tools for, and lay the scientific foundation of, secure wearable mHealth by developing a general framework for body-area pervasive computing, centered around health-monitoring and health-management applications. The Amulet team has built a prototype computational jewelry platform: an electronic bracelet and a software framework that enables developers to create (and users to easily use) safe, secure, and efficient mHealth applications that fit seamlessly into everyday life. This accomplishment-based renewal extends this work?refining and extending the Amulet platform?s functionality, evaluating its performance and usability in larger-scale studies, and transitioning the technology into an open and extensible tool for the research and healthcare communities.<br/><br/>The investigators expect Amulet will be a platform for a wide range of mHealth applications, and this project evaluates this potential in a concrete setting in cooperation with the Center for Technology and Behavioral Health at Dartmouth College. This project explores use of the Amulet platform in new applications, using new wearable sensors and new kinds of user interactions. This exploration includes fielding Amulet prototypes to study stress and other behavioral health metrics, and refining the Amulet hardware and software in response to user feedback, in order to prepare the platform for a successful public release to the research community. The Amulet will open exciting new opportunities as it becomes available to both technology and health-science researchers as they explore the burgeoning field of wearable technology.
With the help of Online Social Networks (OSNs), people share personal and public information and make social connections with friends, coworkers, colleagues, family and even with strangers. As a result, OSNs store a huge amount of sensitive information about users and their interactions. To protect such information, privacy control has been treated as a central feature of OSNs. Although OSNs currently provide some privacy control mechanisms allowing users to regulate access to information they share, users, unfortunately, have no control over data others share. For instance, if a user posts a comment in a friend's space, s/he cannot specify which users can view the comment. Similarly, when a user uploads a photo and tags friends who appear in the photo, the tagged friends cannot restrict who can see this photo. Since multiple associated users may have different privacy concerns over the shared data, privacy conflicts occur and the lack of collaborative privacy control increases the potential risk of leaking sensitive information by friends to the public. To address such a critical issue, it is essential to accommodate diverse privacy control requirements coming from multiple associated users for collaboratively managing the shared data in OSNs. The new techniques developed in this project will substantially enhance the state-of-the-art in privacy-aware data sharing in OSNs and will have implications for the design of future collaborative sharing systems in OSNs. Moreover, since privacy practices in many other collaborative environments, such as electronic health records and financial data sharing also require multiple users to co-manage the privacy of information, the fundamental results generated by this project could be expanded to those collaborative environments beyond social networks. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to seek an effective and flexible mechanism to enable privacy-aware collaborative data sharing in OSNs. To this end, the researchers will first analyze data sharing associated with multiple users in OSNs, and articulate several typical scenarios of privacy conflicts to understand the risks posed by those conflicts. To mitigate risks caused by privacy conflicts, the researchers will investigate a collaborative data sharing mechanism to support the specification and enforcement of multiple privacy concerns. In addition, a systematic conflict detection and resolution mechanism will be created and evaluated with respect to its ability to cope with privacy conflicts occurring in collaborative management of data sharing in OSNs. The conflict resolution in the project attempts to balance the need for privacy protection and users' desire for information sharing by quantitative analysis of privacy risk and sharing loss. Another compelling feature of the proposed approach is the support of both theoretical and empirical analyses on privacy control in OSNs. The researchers will analyze the strategic behaviors of rational users using a game-theoretic model, where each player aims at accommodating her/his privacy concerns as much as possible by adjusting her/his privacy setting in collaborative data sharing in OSNs. Furthermore, the researchers will carry out empirical analysis for practical user behaviors and contrast it with the theoretical analysis in collaborative data sharing, articulating the gap between the theoretic model and real user behaviors. More details about this project, including experimental data and curricular materials can be found on the project website (www.cs.clemson.edu/~hongxih/projects/gpc).
As data-intensive science becomes the norm in many fields of science, high-performance data transfer is rapidly becoming a standard cyberinfrastructure requirement. To meet this requirement, an increasingly large number of university campuses have deployed Science DMZs. A Science DMZ is a portion of the network, built at or near the edge of the campus or laboratory's network, that is designed such that the equipment, configuration, and security policies are optimized for high-performance scientific applications rather than for general-purpose computing. This project develops a secure and resilient architecture called SciGuard that addresses the security challenges and the inherent weaknesses in Science DMZs. SciGuard is based on two emerging networking paradigms, Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV), both of which enable the granularity, flexibility and elasticity needed to secure Science DMZs. <br/><br/>Two core security functions, an SDN firewall application and a virtual Intrusion Detection System (IDS), coexist in SciGuard for protecting Science DMZs. The SDN firewall application is a software-based, in-line security function running atop the SDN controller. It can scale well without bypassing the firewall using per-flow/per-connection network traffic processing. It is also separated from the institutional hardware-based firewalls to enforce tailored security policies for the science-only traffic sent to Science DMZs. The virtual IDS is an NFV-based, passive security function, which can be quickly instantiated and elastically scaled to deal with attack traffic variations in Science DMZs, while significantly reducing both equipment and operational costs. In addition to these functions, the researchers also design a cloud-based federation mechanism for SciGuard to support security policy automatic testing and security intelligence sharing. The new mechanisms developed in this project are robust, scalable, low cost, easily managed, and optimally provisioned, therefore substantially enhancing the security of Science DMZs. This research encourages the diversity of students involved in the project by active recruitment of women and other underrepresented groups for participation in the project. The project has substantial involvement of graduate students in research, and trains promising undergraduate students in the implementation and experiments of the proposed approach. Moreover, the project enhances academic curricula by integrating the research findings into new and existing courses.
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY:<br/><br/>The design of new materials is one critical aspect of engineering new platforms that will augment the energy security of the nation, impact health, and enhance economic competitiveness. Driving innovation in technologies such as clean energy generation and storage and numerous biomedical technologies requires new materials that can serve in different capacities simultaneously. One promising class of materials consists of very large molecules (polymers) able to transport ions and electrons while retaining their mechanical integrity, often under extreme conditions of high temperatures, solvents, and external stresses that may affect their performance. The ability of these materials to play multiple roles is attained by tailoring molecular segments with different chemical functionalities into one large molecule, including blocks for transporting ions and electrons and blocks to provide mechanical stability. Controlling the way these segments organize and perform electrically as they are integrated into devices is key to the design of new effective platforms. In this project, using large-scale computational studies coupled with state-of-the-art neutron measurements, the effects of the structure of these polymers will be correlated with their dynamics as they are exposed to high temperatures and solvents. The projected results will provide the understanding that will enhance the ability to design well-controlled multi-functional polymers, tailored with desired properties for specific applications. The project is closely integrated with interdisciplinary education and training of graduate and undergraduate students and high-school outreach.<br/><br/><br/>TECHNICAL SUMMARY:<br/><br/>Polymers that consist of ionizable blocks (ionomers, or polyelectrolytes) tethered to additional segments with well defined functionalities, constitute promising media for a large number of applications from clean energy and storage to sensors and drug delivery vehicles. The role of the ionic groups is two-fold: they form physical crosslinks while facilitating transport of ions and polar guest molecules. As these two functions often require dynamics of opposing nature, the additional blocks affect the overall stability of such polymers. Here, using large-scale molecular dynamics simulations coupled with neutron scattering techniques, the correlation of polymer dynamics with ionic associations and their cohesiveness will be investigated on a series of model copolymers that consist of styrene sulfonate as the ionic block tethered to different non-ionic segments. Numerous studies have probed the structure of ion-containing polymers and polyelectrolytes, revealing a rich variety of morphologies and establishing a clear correlation between structure and transport. One key challenge that arises from these studies is the need to unfold the correlation between ionic associations and their impact on the mobility of the polymers. The relationship of the dynamics with the number, topology, and stability of the ionic associations impacts the polymer properties and in turn affects a large number of technologies. This research is set to resolve the effects of constraints formed by ionic associations on polymer dynamics. Advances in computational techniques coupled with new developments in neutron scattering will enable a new insight into the dynamics of polymers under the confinement of physical crosslinks.
Household Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices are intended to collect information in the home and to communicate with each other, to create powerful new applications that support our day-to-day activities. Existing research suggests that users have a difficult time selecting their privacy settings on such devices. The goal of this project is to investigate how, why and when privacy decisions of household IoT users are suboptimal, and to use the insights from this research to create and test a simple single user interface that integrates privacy settings across all devices within a household. This interface will have a flexible set of privacy profiles that fits a wide range of privacy preferences and also helps US companies to comply with EU privacy regulations when they operate in the European market.<br/><br/>Unlike existing privacy research, which assumes that users employ limited but essentially rational decision-making practices, this project aims to understand consumers' actual decision processes. In this way we can improve theories about privacy decision making using part-worth utility mapping and process tracing (including eye-tracking). The results of these efforts are used to develop a data-driven set of privacy profiles that cover the privacy preferences of most users. These profiles are then integrated into a privacy management interface (an open-source contribution to an existing IoT management platform) that does not overload users with information and control, but instead leverages their existing decision processes and avoids their biases.
As the role of computing in scientific discovery continues to increase, campuses across the country are challenged with the task of providing effective facilitation for computing capabilities so that researchers can harness these capabilities in their investigations. Such facilitation requires novel organizational approaches to the way that both human and physical resources that constitute campus research computing capabilities are composed, structured, and operated. The mission of the Campus Research Computing (CaRC) Infrastructures Consortium is to provide a national forum for the exchange and dissemination of best practices, expertise and technologies, enabling the advancement of campus-based research computing activities. By bringing together a wide range of campuses and community stakeholders, the CaRC Consortium provides a novel, yet complementary, element of an evolving and expanding national cyberinfrastructure ecosystem. <br/><br/>Governed by a council according to the consortium bylaws, the CaRC Consortium acts as unique force in advancing the impact of computing on the productivity of faculty and students. As an organization that is driven by the campus perspective of research computing, the CaRC offers several key outcomes at a national scale including the sharing of knowledge, best practices, software and hardware technologies, expertise, workforce development, and professional development. This fills a void within the national research computing fabric; as more campuses recognize the value of investments in research computing capacity and also in facilitators and like-functioning positions, many of these campuses and their individual staff members are isolated in a new field of practice without the necessary supporting infrastructure from a practitioner community.
Nontechnical Description: The common computer memory uses digital 0 and 1, solely depending on electric voltage. In contrast, a human has the neuromorphic response capability and can alter the decision-making process based on past experiences. Recently, scientists are exploring various materials, particularly oxides, in order to fabricate a man-made computational system with neuromorphic response capability. This research project investigates organic polymers with electrical resistance that depends on geometry factors, expanding the class of materials that can be used as the basic building blocks for neuromorphic computing. Graduate students are trained in this project for interdisciplinary research bridging the fields of polymer science, electronics, and neuroscience. In addition, research opportunities are provided to high-school and undergraduate students through the Center for Optical Materials Science and Engineering Technologies (COMSET) Summer Fellows Program and in collaboration with Montessori School of Anderson.<br/><br/>Technical Description: This project focuses on the investigation of non-conjugated polymers with pendant aromatic heterocyclic moieties that exhibit conformationally dependent conductivity and emulating synaptic behaviors. A long-term goal of the project is to develop a polymer-based memristor technology that can be employed in a neuromorphic computation system. The research includes three major tasks: (1) Development of molecular design rules for creating a memrisitor using non-conjugated polymers with pendant carbazole and oxadiazole moieties, as well as monomer and polymer synthesis. The goal is to create a polymer-based memrisitor with a conductive function depending on both voltage and a structural parameter, particularly the rotational aspects and trapping properties of the pendant groups; (2) Measurement of the charge transport properties of the memristors, with the results used to refine the molecular design rules and to improve synthesis methods; (3) Emulation of a series of synaptic behaviors using the polymer-based memristors.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating III-V Nitride piezoresistive microcantilever based neutron detector technology to fill the critical technology gap in the neutron detection area arising out of severe worldwide shortage of He-3. The translated technology has the following unique features: (i) vacuum enclosure of the microcantilever sensors, which will result in highly sensitive detection of nuclear radiation, as well as protection of the sensor from environment and unwanted radiation enhancing sensor reliability; (ii) possibility of using arrays of sensors realized through microfabrication techniques, which can offer imaging capabilities and directionality information; (iii) the usage of bimodal detection technique and two functionalization layers to perform highly efficient and unique detection of neutrons. Thus, it provides exemplary performance, cost savings and efficiency when compared to the leading competing neutron detection technology based on Boron-10 in this market space. The project accomplishes this goal by using a relatively inexpensive material with unique material properties and adopting a design strategy involving the design features mentioned above, resulting in a novel neutron detector prototype. The partnership engages Savannah River National Laboratory to provide guidance in the He-detection market space and other aspects including prototype testing and technology commercialization, as they pertain to the potential to translate the technology along a path that may result in a competitive commercial reality. The potential economic impact is expected to be in several tens of millions of dollars in the next eight years, which will contribute to the U.S. competitiveness in this highly critical neutron detection market space. The societal impact, long term, will be in the creation of high-tech workforce and a safer society with vastly mitigated nuclear related threats.
The goal of this project is to study ultra violet (UV) processing as a viable pathway towards a sustainable method of manufacturing layered fiber reinforced materials derived from biological sources for structural applications. A key challenge in the processing of these biobased composite materials is that traditional thermal curing approaches cannot be employed since the constituent natural fibers, which are primarily made of cellulose and hemicellulose, start to degrade with prolonged exposure to high temperatures. UV curing is a fast, low temperature photopolymerization process that uses significantly less energy than thermal curing. If successful, the study will enable a cost-effective and greener process for making high-strength thick laminates that are highly critical for lightweighting automotive and aerospace structures. Lightweighting is tied to achieving improvements in fuel-efficiency and reducing pollution. The PIs will engage graduate and undergraduate students in this interdisciplinary research project and train them in understanding the integral role of process modeling, experimentation, optimization, and control in advanced sustainable manufacturing. The PIs will also leverage collaborations and interactions with industrial partners to broadly influence industrial practices for processing biobased composites.<br/><br/>The specific technical objectives of the project are to, first, extract physically motivated and experimentally verified process models for UV processing of biobased composites, and then apply them in new layering, scale-up optimization and process control schemes for building thick structural parts with these materials. The basic phenomena to be characterized by the modeling and experimental efforts include: 1) the nature of the attenuation of UV intensity as it passes through the biobased resin and fiber systems, and 2) the nature of the coupled evolution of the spatially distributed cure and temperature state. The project will also investigate the potential of a stepped-concurrent curing and layering scheme that will exploit knowledge of the cure kinetics, thermal evolution and UV attenuation in these materials. The project will apply a new hybrid modeling perspective that treats the addition of layers as discrete events on the otherwise continuous physical processes involved in curing. This perspective will help generalize the scale-up optimization of the scheme with the goal of building ever-thicker parts of highest cure quality with minimal time/energy needs. The project will also address process robustness considerations via uncertainty handling in the scale-up optimization as well as with online feedback compensation.
In conventional engineered materials, an engineering designer often selects a material from tabulated databases of products and completes an iterative process of checking the adequacy of the conceptual design for meeting performance requirements. The final engineering design is thus handicapped by the initial material selection. A material designer, on the other hand, works with a library of material compositions and processing methodologies with a goal to discover how new properties emerge from microstructure control, for example. The focus of material design is thus limited to achieving specific property enhancements without considering the end application of the material. There is a need to unify the material and engineering design processes so that new materials can be intentionally designed with the specific goal of incorporation into a useful product, and the engineering design can be freed from the upfront material-based constraints. This project will establish a concurrent design process combining top-down goal-oriented decision-making to optimize engineering system performance with bottom-up constraint-aware algorithms to efficiently search the domain of feasible material designs for polymer nanocomposites. This research project will provide innovation in design methodologies, enabling a competitive advantage to our nation's manufacturing industries as well as energy and defense technologies. <br/><br/>This award supports fundamental research for the development of a new design paradigm termed Concurrent, Unified, State-aware Tailoring of Materials (CUSToM). The PIs will take a Bayesian approach to searching over the design domain, facilitating explicit consideration of the uncertainties in every aspect of the process. In the CUSToM framework, computer simulation (either empirical or first-principles based) is an integral part of the search process capturing the material scientist's domain knowledge. The hypothesis underlying this project is that the top-down search processes engrained in the CUSToM framework will yield products with superior performance compared to those obtained with conventional materials design. This hypothesis will be tested on the design of polymer nanocomposites with precisely determined material microstructure, composition, and processing methods for applications in wind energy; specifically high-strength, light-weight composites for next generation wind turbine blades. The broader impacts of this work will go beyond providing a new design paradigm for engineered materials to include the training of undergraduate and graduate researchers, exposure of undergraduate and graduate students to the world of entrepreneurship, and outreach to K-12 students in order to motivate them towards careers in STEM related fields.
This research will investigate how salamanders respond to climate change by acclimating to new environments. The capacity to adjust physiological traits may be especially important for amphibians because they are one of the most threatened groups of animals on the planet. Amphibians use both terrestrial and aquatic environments and thus are particularly sensitive to environmental degradation due to climate change. Unfortunately, despite increased interest in response to climate change, we know very little about how salamander populations will fare under changing conditions. The goal of this project is to identify genes that may contribute to a salamander's ability to accommodate environmental change. This study will help determine if salamander populations can evolve an increased capacity to deal with variable environments. The study will also provide underrepresented college students the opportunity to develop independent, inquiry-based projects in amphibian biology. <br/><br/>In response to climate change, organisms must adapt, acclimate, migrate, or potentially face extinction. Adaptation is a heritable evolutionary change of a population over generations. Acclimation is change that happens within the lifetime of an individual animal. If individuals vary in their capacity to acclimate, increased acclimation ability might itself evolve due to natural selection creating an adaptation of acclimation. The study will determine the capacity of individual Southern grey-cheeked salamander (Plethodon metcalfi) to adjust rates of water loss in response to temperature and humidity. Using a time-course experimental design, the study will identify differences in gene expression between individuals that acclimate and individuals that do not acclimate and identify the genes that the salamanders use to reduce rates of water loss as temperature changes. Upon identifying these genes, the study will link the activity of those genes to specific physiological responses that alter water loss. The result will be an increased understanding of the genetic basis of acclimation and adaptation to environmental cues.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating multimodal membranes towards commercialization to fill the market need for products that increase purification speeds during biologics drug discovery and preclinical research and development efforts. The multimodal membranes are important because they will help to get biologics to market faster where they are needed to service the large and growing population of patients with long-term, chronic conditions such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases, and autoimmune disorders. The project will result in research-scale, cation-exchange multimodal membrane chromatography (CEX-MMC) column prototypes. This CEX-MMC column has the following unique features: rapid purification of biologics, tolerance of feedstock ionic strength, high biologics binding capacity, and disposability. These features increase productivity and decrease purification costs of biologics by reducing processing times and number of steps, the costs of consumables, and fixed capital expenses when compared to the leading competing chromatography columns in this market space. Market entry will result from use of these products in research and early stage development laboratories, where purification speed is essential and customers are willing to try new technologies.<br/><br/>This project addresses remaining technology gaps as it translates from research discovery toward commercial application. The first generation CEX-MMC developed in the NSF lineage award demonstrated unprecedented protein binding capacity at high ionic strength. Dynamic binding capacity results showed that the CEX-MMC column has high productivity; however, protein binding kinetics must be improved. In this project, new membrane coatings will be designed to enhance protein binding kinetics. In addition, nearly all performance data have been collected using pure-component protein solutions and low titer cell culture supernatant, and almost no work has been done to quantify biological activity of the product or removal of aggregates and other impurities. In this project, antibody media will be prepared using commercial cell lines and used to collect these essential performance data. Two biopharmaceutical companies have committed to collaboration for assessing the performance of the prototypes using industry representative process parameters and monoclonal antibody feed streams. Evaluation of protein recovery, purity, and removal of protein aggregates will be measured following the CEX-MMC column purification step. These are critical performance measures that need to be determined for the Minimally Viable Product (MVP) prior to commercialization. <br/><br/>Strategic commercialization and educational plans are designed to validate remaining parts of the business model canvas and create new networks among inventors, entrepreneurs, potential investors and potential customers. Broader impacts also include training graduate and undergraduate students to better understand technology commercialization and entrepreneurship and pursue careers developing new purification technologies for biomanufacturing. Graduate and undergraduate students will attend lectures on technology commercialization held at CUBEInC, Clemson University's life science incubator. A collateral benefit of these lectures is that they will give all project personnel regular opportunities for direct communication with business leaders; entrepreneurs; and potential partners, customers, and investors in the life sciences. Students also will complete a course on technology commercialization designed for engineering students. MBA students will advance understanding of the market value, space, potential customers, and competition landscape and seek collaborations for launch with selected industry partners; and evaluate potential distribution channels and estimate the associated costs. The team will use this knowledge continually to refine the overall strategy for translation of the research discoveries onto a path towards commercialization.
The significance of the project is that it will enhance the logical reasoning ability of students, and thus improve the quality of the software they develop after graduation. To make this possible, the project will employ an integrated system of engaging interactive reasoning guides to help overcome individual and collective learning obstacles. These guides will facilitate incremental learning for students and incremental adoption for educators. The automation inherent in the guides will make them an ideal vehicle for impacting learning in personalized and online settings and for reaching a diverse audience.<br/><br/>The project goals include enabling students to reason correctly about code compositions on all valid inputs, pinpointing fine-grain learning obstacles using a logical reasoning approach aided by an automated verification engine, and tailoring the tutoring necessary to help students overcome those obstacles. The scope includes common code idioms from the introductory programming repertoire and more advanced component-based software engineering concepts such as contracts. The underlying verification engine makes it possible for the interactive guides to offer a class of learner activities and directed logical feedback not possible with standard IDEs (Interactive Development Environments) such as Eclipse. Research and evaluation will focus on how well the guides engage students and how learning is improved.
Highly efficient and scalable computing systems are crucial to scientific discovery and technology innovation critical to national security and human society. However, the scalability of HPC systems is increasingly constrained by the power requirement and the necessity to limit the power density of components and server rooms. Comprising millions of components, today?s HPC systems already consume megawatts of power; to meet an insatiate demand for performance from mission-critical applications, future systems will consist of even more components and consume more power. To resolve the conflicting needs of scaling performance and limiting power, this research develops enabling technology for efficient and scalable computing on emerging and future computer systems bounded by power budgets.<br/><br/>The proposed power-bounded HPC approach recognizes power as a scarce resource and exploits hardware overprovisioning to scale performance within a power budget. Targeting at emerging heterogeneous HPC clusters comprising power-aware multicore CPUs and manycore accelerators, this research studies how to utilize all available power to maximize performance and power efficiency at component, node, and cluster levels for a wide range of applications. Specifically, this research (1) designs a novel application-aware cross-component scheduling system for power-bounded multicore computing, (2) creates a cooperative hybrid computing framework for power-bounded heterogeneous computing, and (3) develops analytical models and techniques to support large scale power-bounded computing. The completion of this research promotes novel system and software designs that efficiently utilize every watt of power on computation; the resulting analytical models form the theoretical foundation for designing future HPC systems, architectures, and building blocks. This project integrates educational components that engage graduate and undergraduate students in innovative HPC research, and broaden the participation of underrepresented and K-12 students.
Youth environmental education (EE) programs often serve as gateway experiences in which diverse audiences engage in informal science learning. While there is evidence that these programs can have positive impacts on participants, little empirical research has been conducted to determine what makes one program more successful than another. To be able to conduct such research, this Exploratory Pathways study will (1) develop and statistically validate ways to measure meaningful outcomes for participants across a variety of programs and (2) test observational methods that will enable research that can determine which elements of program delivery most powerfully influence participant engagement and learning outcomes in different contexts. These efforts will include consultations with diverse subject matter experts from the National Park Service, nature centers, and academia; survey research with participants in afterschool and free-choice EE programs; and observations of EE programs designed to fine tune the measurement of program delivery elements and student engagement. Developing valid and reliable outcomes measures and observational protocols will enable a larger investigation that will specifically address the following research question: What program characteristics lead to the best learning outcomes for program participants in different contexts? This research will result in empirically tested guidelines that will enable educators to design and deliver more effective programs for a wide range of audiences in a wide range of contexts. It is funded by the Advancing Informal STEM Learning (AISL) program, which seeks to advance new approaches to, and evidence-based understanding of, the design and development of STEM learning in informal environments.<br/><br/>This effort will refine methods necessary to undertake an unprecedented study (and future AISL Research in Service to Practice proposal) to examine the linkages between pedagogical approaches, participant engagement, and learning outcomes in informal STEM-focused youth EE programs. The larger study will involve systematically observing a large number of programs to assess the use of different approaches and to link those approaches to engagement and learning outcomes through both observation and survey research. In this current study the team will develop and refine crosscutting outcome measures to ensure validity, reliability, and sensitivity by drawing upon the literature and consultation with key stakeholders to develop suites of indicators for subsequent psychometric testing and revision. They will also refine observational techniques for assessing pedagogical approaches through extensive testing of inter-rater reliability. Finally, techniques for measuring participant engagement, incorporating both observational techniques and retrospective participant surveys will be refined.<br/><br/>The work will be conducted by researchers at Clemson University and Virginia Tech, in partnership with the U.S. National Park Service, the North American Association for Environmental Education, and the American Association of Nature Center Administrators. This work represents the first step in a longer research process to determine the "best practices" most responsible for achieving outcomes in a wide range of contexts.
1511051<br/>Amy<br/><br/>Currently, seawater reverse osmosis is the most commonly used desalination technology. Specifically, the blending of reverse osmosis desalinated water with single or multiple treated fresh waters drawn from other sources is a low-cost method to meet the demands of drinking water and to increase the concentration of some desired ions. Therefore, the objective of this project is to conduct a comprehensive and systematic study to examine the formation and speciation of reaction byproducts of disinfection and the toxicity changes of seawater reverse osmosis desalinated waters as a consequence of blending.<br/><br/>This is the first comprehensive research that combines a disinfection byproduct study on the formation, speciation, and factors affecting bromide/iodide incorporation with a toxicology study to determine possible toxicities on mammalian cells. In this study, the PIs propose to investigate: 1) the formation and speciation of brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts in the presence of hydrophilic organic matter (e.g., algal organic matter, wastewater effluent organic matter, natural organic matter) of different origins in treated waters that are likely to be used for blending with seawater reverse osmosis permeate, 2) the effects of pH and temperature on the formation and speciation of brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts, 3) the change in mammalian cell cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of waters from blending, and 4) the ability of total organic halide species and/or other individual brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts to predict the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of the blended waters based on a multiple regression. The project will be conducted in two phases: Phase 1, which entails a disinfection byproduct study on the formation, speciation, and factors affecting bromide/iodide incorporation under various mixing scenarios and using chlorine and chloramine for post-disinfection (i and ii); and Phase 2, which entails a toxicity study on mammalian cell cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of waters from blending and multiple regression analysis between total organic halide components and experimentally measured water toxicities (iii and iv). Educational components of the project will provide opportunities for undergraduate (e.g., Creative Inquiry Program at Clemson, UIUC WaterCamps program, the UIUC Global Safe Water Institute) and high school student research, including recruitment of underrepresented groups in scientific research.
Corrosion of reinforcing steel in concrete structures is one of the critical parameters in deterioration of concrete structures. It is hypothesized that reduction in grain size in steel can significantly reduce corrosion in reinforcing bars. Analytical and experimental studies will be pursued to correlate between grain size and level of corrosion. The experiments in this EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project will include putting the reinforcing steel in the simulated concrete environment. The grain size in steel will be altered using thermal cycles to determine effects of grain size on corrosion and mechanical properties. The reinforcing steel will be subjected to chloride contaminated concrete pore solution and the level of corrosion on the corroded steel bars will be assessed using different microscopic and spectroscopic analyses. Mechanical properties of the steel with different grain sizes will be obtained with standard tests. Cost analysis of the alteration of grain size will be pursued in this exploratory project to determine viability of the process.<br/><br/>Electron backscatter diffraction technique to obtain quantitative microstructural map will be used for crystallographic nature of the steel specimens. This technique reveals grain size, grain boundary character, grain orientation, texture, and phase identity of the specimens. The microstructural map in an analytical model will allow predicting the pitting corrosion behavior of steel with different grain sizes. Physical and chemical composition of the steel will be obtained using scanning electrochemical microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and optical profiler. The analytical model will include pitting growth as a variable. Life cycle cost analysis will be pursued as related to grain size necessary to reduce corrosion. A procedure that is in a standard for cost analysis for measuring life cycle costs in buildings will be used for this purpose. The final results of this exploratory project will be to understand corrosion as related to grain size of steel exposed to environment of concrete.
1551534<br/>Cates<br/><br/>Membrane processes are now being used for many environmental applications such as drinking water and wastewater treatment. They are also used in indirect potable reuse and desalination plants. One of the single biggest issues is membrane fouling which increases the operational and maintenance cost. This project uses ultraviolet radioluminescence, a potentially transformative tool for membrane biofouling prevention, with many theoretical advantages over chemical antimicrobial strategies currently being researched. <br/><br/>The concept, conceived by the PI, involves incorporation of inorganic phosphor materials within reverse osmosis or nanofiltration membrane module feed channels, which emit germicidal ultraviolet radiation when excited by X-rays. The penetrating ability of high-energy X-rays could thus allow controllable ultraviolet treatment within the typically inaccessible confines of spiral-wound modules by employing externally-situated X-ray sources to excite the phosphors within. This approach is attractive in theory, but its predicted feasibility currently relies on cursory simulations involving simplified scenarios and approximate values of X-ray attenuation, phosphor efficiency, and microbial UVC dose response from the literature. In order to predict if RL membrane biofouling control (RMBC) can become a viable technology in the future, the PI proposes to conduct exploratory research involving simplified proof-of-concept experiments to probe internal microbial inactivation rates. This data will then be assessed with regards to conventional X-ray sources and emerging high-efficiency flat panel sources. Before full-scale research efforts are expended, it should also be demonstrated that the expected X-ray and UVC doses required to adequately curtail fouling are not high enough to significantly impact the working lifetimes of membranes. The PIs propose 10 months of experiments to explore these factors and reveal the feasibility of RMBC without requiring intensive prototype development. The approach being proposed is; (1) the first known method of achieving UV inactivation of bacteria within small spaces confined by UV-opaque materials, and, (2) the first use of UV radiation in directly deterring biofouling within modules. While the individual phenomena of X-ray transmission, RL, and UVC microbial inactivation are qualitatively well-understood - though in disparate contexts - this project will be the first to demonstrate how they perform in succession and to quantify the outcome. The research will thus support the PI's goals of instilling greater interaction between students in these two fields in order to encourage advancement of transformative sustainable technologies. The PIs have also developed a plan to include undergraduate summer interns of underrepresented minorities in future embodiments of this research.
In engineering design, a popular representation taught in mechanical design curricula is "functional modeling." Function has been defined as what a device or system is intended to do or the intentional transformation from inputs to outputs. The function is not what the product is (form), how the product does what it does (behavior), or why the product exists (purpose). However, it does relate to all of these, and thus allows engineers to transition between the problem space and the solution space. Many design tools have been developed based on functional modeling but are not yet ubiquitously found throughout industry. Rather than suggesting new function vocabularies, tools, or methods, this EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project seeks to understand how engineers think about function by studying their behaviors in creating models. To do this, the modeling behaviors of design engineers will be recorded, and models of cognition will be used to explain these behaviors. With this understanding, new computational design tools can be developed in the future. In addition, engineering design education can be enhanced by providing students with better strategies for creating the function models.<br/><br/>It is important to understand how engineers think, reason, and operate on function modeling elements and how these models bridge problem definition and solution exploration. Through experimental protocol studies, the specific modeling patterns (forward chaining, backward chaining, nucleation) and pause patterns (pause before or after elemental instantiation) will be analyzed. The modeling patterns will provide evidence of goal-oriented thinking (backward chaining) or causal reasoning (forward chaining). The pause patterns and frequencies will be used to understand relative importance of function (action of transformation) and flow (things being transformed). Two basic research questions will be explored: Are there modeling behavior patterns to function modeling that are invariant of chosen representation? And can these modeling behavior patterns be used to understand, predict, and explain cognitive models of design activities?
This EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project will focus on human-infrastructure interactions within future smart cities. Specifically, the goal of this project is to develop a conceptual network optimization framework that exploits user feedback from crowd-sourced data. The next-generation ubiquitous traffic sensors, such as fixed traffic detectors, mobile sensors with location-based services (e.g., Google traffic), and traffic active mobile sensors (e.g., Waze), have been used to retrieve large and diverse geo-located and time-stamped data. In addition, data crowd-sourced from social media and mobile applications are increasingly available for understanding human mobility. On the other hand, existing network optimization models in transportation were largely developed without considering human behavior. This project will explore methods to design an electric vehicle wireless charging network of the future. Such a charging network will provide non-stop, in-motion charging particularly suitable for urban environments. For many users, wireless charging will be an opportunistic, emergency charging choice that supplements distributed charging resources at home, the workplace, and at retail facilities. Traditional network optimization models, which implicitly assume that charging demand is distributed and a given, may not result in a user-satisfactory solution in such tasks as finding the best routes that contain wireless charging network segments. The PIs aim to overcome this deficiency by developing: (i) user feedback-driven network optimization models that explicitly account for user satisfaction, and (ii) fast and scalable optimization methods for real-world, large-scale problem implementations that efficiently and effectively utilize crowd-sourced information. The results of this research will include a "living lab" assessment in which students will develop a mobile app to collect feedback about the route with wireless charging network segments. This feedback will be analyzed and incorporated in optimization models.<br/><br/>This approach will be implemented using a combination of large-scale machine learning and optimization solvers. The mobile app will provide basic anonymized information about users, trip types, and route feedback through secured channels. These data and open information about all road segments will be used to explore relevant latent factors and create cost-sensitive support vector machine based classifiers to identify the most suitable segments for wireless charging network and adjust the optimization-based network design. Rather than using traditional, computationally expensive optimization solvers, the PIs will pursue an algebraic multigrid-based approach to cope with large-scale, real-world problems, and leverage their support vector machine solvers.
This collaborative project will facilitate a three-year international research experience for U.S. undergraduates majoring in STEM disciplines. Students from a diverse regional population will be recruited as summer cohorts to participate in research projects with researchers from the Brazilian Science-Technology Corridor (Sao Paulo - Campinas - Sao Carlos). The interest in analytical applications combining microfluidics and nanomaterials has grown exponentially in the last years. Considering these advances and their importance for future developments, this IRES program aims to provide the tools for students to develop the skills required to face an internationally competitive job market linked to chemical analysis. This proposal aims to boost education and training in a creative, multidisciplinary, and culturally-rich environment. A focus on minority recruiting, combined with the involvement of graduate students as mentors, will provide the support mechanisms required to expand and strengthen the pool of participants as well as the research experience. <br/><br/>Recent developments in nanotechnology and microfluidics have allowed the understanding and rational utilization of a series of micro total analysis systems (uTAS). The existing links between these two fields have enabled crossing the traditional borders and the development of unique training opportunities for students in science and engineering tracks. Furthermore, the interest in analytical applications combining microfluidics and nanomaterials has grown exponentially in the last years. Although this integration has enhanced sensing, separation, and extraction procedures, the applicability of specific nanomaterials for chemical analysis depends mainly on the chemical composition, structure, size, morphology, and preparation method. Considering these characteristics and their importance for future developments, this IRES program aims to provide students an enriching research experience and link chemical properties with a real-world analytical problem.
Threats to scientific instruments and data that are accessible via the Internet are ubiquitous. The SouthEast SciEntific Cybersecurity for University REsearch (SECURE) project helps protect the National Science Foundation's investments in scientific research while providing scientists with tools to safeguard intellectual property and ensure data integrity. The project team provides education, training, and selected cybersecurity services to NSF-funded researchers across the Southeast. The team is multidisciplinary, comprised of cybersecurity experts (both research and practitioner), scientists, and experts in communication. Team members are located in South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi, with strong representation from Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU). This program raises investigators' awareness of their essential role in creating a secure and trustworthy cyberspace and offers concrete assistance in risk assessment, vulnerability testing, and mitigation tailored to NSF-funded scientists? workflow and program size. Through past collaborations, the team is well positioned to leverage both national and regional cybersecurity organizations and programs to effectively reach the target audience.<br/><br/>SouthEast SECURE impacts the region by raising cybersecurity awareness; providing concise training, assessment, tools and one-on-one help; and assisting in preparation of select cybersecurity metrics. Student interns are conducting many of these activities by means of practicum-based deployment and support, thus developing capabilities in the next generation of cyber professionals. An online survey of NSF-funded investigators in the region will be conducted to learn about their primary cybersecurity challenges and concerns. Training is then tailored to provide concrete and practical assistance in how to do right-sized risk assessment and mitigation. A "toolkit" is provided to test and validate local cybersecurity, and measures of cybersecurity are created and field-tested. The team?s approach facilitates communication between research faculty and university IT/Data Security staff. A long-term goal is building communities with common interests in cybersecurity and a commitment to helping others; and building connections with other regions and with national centers and programs.
PI: Koley, Goutam <br/>Proposal Number: 1606882 <br/><br/>The goal is to develop bio-implantable sensors utilizing the unique material properties of graphene and boron nitride, which would offer much higher sensitivity for detecting concentration of various ions in blood and tissue in real time, enabling prediction of the onset of disease states before their clinical manifestation. The project activities would integrate research with education and training of high school, undergraduate and graduate students, with significant minority participation. <br/><br/>The overall goal of the proposed research is to develop novel graphene-based flexible ion-sensitive field effect transistor (ISFET) sensors for the measurement of K+, Ca2+ and Na+ ion concentrations and correlated ion fluxes in cardiomyocytes and glial cells, with the overall objective of developing a new approach for assaying cell membrane ion transport in primary cell culture. The detection of the aforementioned ions is clinically significant as they serve as important bio-markers for onset of myocardial ischemia and epilepsy. The proposed graphene ISFET sensor array will enable critical understanding of K+, Ca2+ and Na+ membrane transport in glial cells and cardiomyocytes. The approach of ISFET development utilizing the novel properties of boron nitride and graphene addresses several critical issues including: (i) the complicacy, low throughput and cell invasiveness issues of patch clamp and microelectrode array based techniques, and (ii) the low sensitivity and degradation of commercially available Si-based ISFETs. The experimental plan includes growing cells directly on graphene and performing continuous, real-time and label-free measurements of ion fluxes in cardiomyocytes and glial cells. The measurements acquired are expected to provide electrophysiological properties of primary cells in culture, especially regulatory and drug-induced changes in their electrical properties. Successful completion would result in the development of useful ISFET sensors for in vivo detection of the onset of myocardial ischemia and epilepsy. As part of the educational and outreach activities, the PIs would each involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year focusing strongly on recruiting minority students. The PIs would also integrate research results in a graduate course, and disseminate them through conference participation as well as research websites.<br/>&#8195;
This workshop brings together educators and researchers in the fields of Engineering Design and Systems Engineering to assess the state of the art in these fields, identify promising directions for future research, exploit the synergies between the two fields, and strengthen the design and innovation capabilities of practitioners. Additionally, current NSF grantees from both ESD and SYS programs (Engineering and Systems Design; Systems Science) will be able to present posters explaining their work and get feedback from their colleagues and the program director. Participants will identify and discuss past contributions that have had a strong impact on education and practice. and discussed their domains of applicability, their limitations, and what needs to be done to strengthen their future potential and impact. <br/><br/>The main objective of the workshop is to enable the engineering design and systems engineering communities to exchange ideas and find synergies. The workshop will bring together about 150 researchers and divide them in small groups of ten to discuss three specific topics. First, workshop participants will focus on method validation and research methodology. Many design and systems engineering methods, approaches and tools have been suggested in the last forty years. There is a need to take stock, critique, agree on the potentials and limitations of these methods, and define evidence-based approaches to further improve them. A second workshop topic is to determine future research directions and to establish a framework in which these future contributions can be organized. The focus will be on directions that can most affect the ability of engineering and systems designers to innovate and to deal with the increased complexity of products and systems. Third, the education of engineers and of practitioners will be discussed to identify best practices, the right mix between experiential education and lectures, and the critical topics that will provide the breadth and depth required to move the fields forward at the various educational levels.
Adolescents have fully embraced social networks for socializing and communicating. However, cyberbullying has become widely recognized as a serious social problem, especially for adolescents using social networks. Also, cyberbullying techniques change rapidly. Perpetrators can use the camera-capacity of their mobile devices to bully others through making and distributing harmful pictures or videos of their victims via mobile social networks. While the social and psychological aspects of cyberbullying have been the subject of intense study, little research has been dedicated to tracing cyberbullying attacks accurately and automatically using computing technologies. Indeed, the development of automatic cyberbullying detection techniques is still in the nascent stages. All state-of-the-art studies in automatic cyberbullying detection have mainly focused on the content of the text written by the perpetrators of cyberbullying (a.k.a. textual cyberbullying), while largely overlooking the misuse of visual media in cyberbullying. This research reveals that there are great challenges that must urgently be resolved to ensure the most robust defense against visual cyberbullying attacks.<br/><br/>This project is designing and developing a systematic solution for automatic detection of and intervention in visual cyberbullying attacks in emerging mobile social networks. The researchers are identifying new person and situational factors associated with visual cyberbullying and designing a cross-feature classifier for automatic visual cyberbullying detection. The project is also building an adaptive cyberbullying intervention system to continuously monitor situation changes in cyberbullying and provide specific response strategies for each associated participant. The proposed methods can be potentially adopted and implemented in popular mobile social network platforms to prevent visual cyberbullying. The system designed by this project could be used to curb the rising trend in instances of cyberbullying among young people and reducing the myriad harmful effects that follow from it. In addition, since many other common cyber threats targeting adolescents must also deal with visual media now, the fundamental results generated by this project could be expanded to cope with those threats beyond cyberbullying.
Abstract (Getman, 1554385)<br/>The proposed research will refine molecular simulation models for catalytic reactions in the presence of liquid water and apply the calculations to an electrochemical process for ammonia synthesis that could potentially replace the long-standing, but energy intensive, Haber-Bosch gas phase process. The research is integrated with an educational plan that introduces molecular level simulation concepts to students across levels ranging from high school to graduate research.<br/><br/>Theoretical understanding of catalytic materials and processes has advanced significantly in recent years due to rapid improvements in computer resources. This theoretical understanding is streamlining the process of catalyst discovery and moving the field of catalysis toward the prediction of new processes and materials and away from the traditional trial-and-error approach. However, this transition has been slow in the area of liquid phase catalysis, especially electrocatalysis, in large part because of incomplete understanding of the interactions that occur between fluid molecules and the catalyst surface. The research proposed here will take a large step toward better understanding these interactions by considering their free energies, whereas prior treatments have only considered their enthalpies. Traditional modeling equations will be refined and extended by adding, for the first time, free energy contributions due to rotation, translation, and interaction occurring between liquid-phase molecules and species adsorbed to the catalyst surface. The refined models will then be directed toward understanding the reaction between liquid water and gaseous nitrogen in an electrocatalytic environment to produce ammonia under near-ambient temperature and pressure conditions. The improved simulation models will pave the way for a more rational approach to catalyst discovery across a broad range of liquid phase catalytic reactions, and the educational materials will train coming generations of students in molecular-level phenomena and the effective use of molecular simulation tools.
South Carolina (SC) is rapidly expanding into aviation, automotive, and advanced manufacturing, and regional employers are increasingly in need of well-educated technicians who are familiar with the specialized demands of a new generation of manufacturing jobs. The Center for Aviation and Automotive Technological Education Using Virtual E-Schools (CA2VES) and the state's 2-year institutions are creating opportunities to improve technician and STEM education and increase workforce preparedness for a large and diverse population of SC students. CA2VES brings together global and regional industry and educational partners to develop and disseminate such Digital Learning Tools (DLTs) as digital curricula, e-learning, simulations and virtual reality (VR) modules. DLTs have already given students greater academic control over time, place, path and pace, and provided students with the skills required by the rapidly expanding automotive and aerospace industries in the region. <br/><br/>The CA2VES team will continue to lead the design and development of DLTs working with industries and employers, and collaborate with Co-PIs (Florence-Darlington Technical College, Greenville Technical College, Spartanburg Community College and the SCATE Center) and additional ATE Centers to evaluate the effectiveness of DLTs in technician education programs. CA2VES and partners will design and execute recruitment campaigns to attract and engage underserved populations (specifically women, minorities and students from rural areas). CA2VES will also partner with 2-year institutions and high schools to customize and modularize DLTs, field test new modules and conduct ongoing research evaluating how others replicate and use CA2VES DLTs. The team will assess the improved pedagogical effectiveness of its work in the areas of innovations in teaching and learning, technology integration and workforce development. Additionally, the Center will provide rigorous evidence-based research in VR development for technician education and become a sustainable resource.
Proposal: 1553945<br/>PI: Ding, Feng <br/><br/>With the rapid development of nanotechnology, engineered nanoparticles (NPs) may be released to the environmental and biological systems either purposely or accidentally. With many proteins enriched in the environmental and biological media as the functional building blocks, they can be absorbed onto the NP surface, forming the so-called NP-protein corona. It is the protein coronae rather than the original NPs that are "seen" by cells and tissues and subsequently determine the biological and/or pathological functions of these released NPs. The objective of this proposal is to develop and apply state-of-the-art computer simulation methods to understand the fundamental aspects of the corona formation and to determine the physical and chemical properties of NPs that dictate the protein absorption. The obtained knowledge will help guide the design of novel NPs that promotes the intended biological functions and prevents the unintended pathological responses, enabling the "safe-by-design" to the broad scientific and engineering community for modeling and predicting corona formation and rapid risk assessment of NP exposures. <br/><br/>In this CAREER proposal, the PI proposes to apply the multiscale discrete molecular dynamics (DMD) methodology to characterize the structure and dynamics of NP-protein corona and to identify the physicochemical determinants of the NP-protein interactions. The objective of this research will be accomplished by pursuing the following specific aims: 1) Develop NP models and their interactions with biomolecules for DMD simulations; 2) Uncover the physicochemical determinants of NP-protein binding; 3) Characterize the structure and dynamics of protein aggregation in the corona; and 4) Extend the research and education in classroom and laboratory more broadly to other education and scientific research community. The developed and validated computational methodology will be shared with the broad scientific research communities. The proposed research projects will uncover the structural and dynamic properties of NP-protein corona at the molecular and atomic level and determine the physicochemical determinants of the molecular complex formation. The obtained results from the proposed mechanistic studies will be pivotal in designing more efficient and safe NPs with optimal properties to promote intended biological functions and minimize the pathological implications of NP exposure. <br/><br/>Broader impacts of this proposal include the sustainable development of nanotechnology and improves applications of nanomedicine. Funding of this research will also support students training at the interfaces of physics, material science, biology, and environmental science and engineering, update physics curriculum to reflect the current trend in science, and increase the diversity of physics education and research. The proposed research will develop and validate critical predictive tools to effectively and efficiently model the nano-bio interface, which can be used for engineering NPs with novel biological functions as well as for NP risk assessment. In addition, easy accessibility and enhanced usability of the developed tools will benefit the broad science and engineering community working in the field.
On-line Process Analytical Technology (PAT) is needed in enabling biopharmaceutical companies to significantly improve drug quality and productivity. Current in-situ monitoring in production plants and laboratories is still mainly based on measuring temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, pressure, airflow, and liquid flow. These parameters do not give information on cell viability, cycle, size, autophagy and apoptosis that are metrics to indicate reproducibility of the bioprocess. FDA suggested key PAT technologies such as near-infrared, mid-infrared, Raman spectroscopy, fluorescence and imaging, and mass spectroscopy, are all under active development, but with limitations of one kind or another, such as limited sensitivity, difficult to use, and high cost. Dielectric spectroscopy is also studied as a promising approach, but not yet appropriate for PAT due to limited sensitivity and information contents.<br/><br/>This project involves a novel radio frequency (RF) interferometer technique for On-line Process Analytical Technology (PAT) instrument development. The obtained radio frequency (RF) probes exploit novel interference processes to enhance sensitivity while applying novel tuning mechanisms to cover broad frequency ranges and tune sensitivity for robust system operations. The RF probes are expected to have unprecedented sensitivity and robustness to analyze cell viability, autophagy, apoptosis, and size in a label-free and non-invasive manner. Many of these cell properties are not available in other PAT methods. The electronic approach is expected to enable mass produced low-cost and easy-to-use PAT instruments.
1531041 (Klotz). This INSPIRE project is jointly funded by the Environmental Sustainability program in the CBET Division in the ENG Directorate, the Decision, Risk, and Management Sciences program in the SES Division of the SBE Directorate, and the Office of Integrative Activities. The project will extend - to upstream, multi-stakeholder decision making for sustainability - the study of interventions designed to alleviate decision biases such as framing effects and social norms. This topic will be studied in the context of defaults, or starting points, in development decisions for physical infrastructure, which has long term impacts on various sustainability concerns. Such decisions in infrastructure, as in other domains, are guided by decision aids including rating systems that do not take full advantage of advances in behavioral sciences, in part because this is an area where interdisciplinary exchange of methods, problems, and solutions has been rare. Through a collaboration that was established by the NSF RCN SUSSTAIN, this project will examine whether and how default options presented to infrastructure designers can help them overcome barriers to the selection of more sustainable options. <br/><br/>Intentionally designed defaults will be studied in Envision, a leading rating system for sustainable infrastructure. The research plan follows an iterative process that begins with experimental work to test a series of default interventions, with students and professionals, using replicas of actual infrastructure development decisions. Experiments will test the extent to which behavioral science theories translate to upstream, multi-stakeholder decisions, in particular whether choice defaults influence such decisions, and through which of three channels: the cognitive energy required to make a decision; perceptions that the default is the recommended or social norm option; and by framing the outcome as a loss or gain. Experiments will also explore whether disclosing interventions diminishes their effect. Semi-structured interviews with decision makers will complement the experiments to explore the relative influence of the choice defaults compared to technical and economic considerations and compared to stakeholders' differing goals, importance weightings, and tradeoff values. This project is set up to yield educational case studies to infuse research insights into engineering and behavioral science curricula.
This grant supports the eighth annual "Graduate Student mini-Conference in Computational Mathematics" which will be held at Clemson University on February 5 and 6, 2016. Topics covered in the conference consist of recent advances in the theory and implementation of numerical methods for partial differential equations, including multiphase flow, porous media, numerical methods for stochastic PDEs, turbulence, fluid dynamics, climate simulation and PDE constrained optimization. Aside from one plenary speaker, all talks will be given by graduate students. <br/><br/>Approximately twenty graduate students from Clemson, Virginia Tech, the University of Pittsburgh, Auburn University, the University of South Carolina, Florida State University, the University of Tennessee, and Emory University will present scientific research talks involving mathematical modeling in science and engineering, and rigorous analysis and efficient implementation of numerical methods for the modeling equations. The conference organizers strongly encourage participation of under-represented groups, and it is expected that nearly half of the graduate student speakers will be from an under-represented group. The goals of the conference are to give graduate students an opportunity to give a professional scientific talk, to bring graduate students and researchers (their advisors) together to discuss collaborative research projects, and to exchange new ideas in many challenging research areas.
This project provides funding to develop HomeSHARE, a community infrastructure for doing research around aging in place that provides the community with access to a network of smart homes with a standard sensor package and the ability to add custom technology as needed for specific studies. Currently, although there is much research interest in using home-based sensors to model mobility and health, setting up these kinds of studies is difficult and there is little infrastructure to support it. This tends to cause duplicate, wasted effort in setting up sites; very small numbers of participating homes, limiting the generality and power of the research; and incompatibilities in the setups used by different teams that make it hard to put different pieces of research together. To address this, the team will create the backbone of a large network of homes that can support research that uses sensed information to predict a number of attributes about older adults at home, including mobility patterns, mental health, hospital readmissions, and energy use. The main activities are to deploy their suite of sensors and other computing technology in a total of 30 volunteers' homes at two partner institutions, and develop software that connects and collects data from the homes. Team members will work carefully with residents of the homes to cover the costs of technologies and address privacy and technical concerns they have. They will also create materials that cover technical, ethical, and training issues that other researchers can use both as client sites to conduct studies using the existing network (for a fee to cover operating costs) and as installation sites who join the network directly by adding their own smart homes. To manage demand for the infrastructure, the team will create a governing board of researchers drawn initially from the awardees' institutions. This board will review the technology needs and applications for studies to ensure that they meet the ethical and research goals of the project. The hope is that through this research, the infrastructure will pay for itself many times over not just in knowledge but in improved health and life quality outcomes for older adults; it will also provide service- and project-based learning opportunities for a number of graduate and undergraduate students.<br/><br/>The network will consist of a number of homes using a standardized technology package to ensure consistent, reliable, and secure data collection and data sharing across the many studies while also addressing privacy and acceptability concerns for participants. It will include a number of window and door sensors, a wearable activity tracker, a tablet computer for communicating with and collecting survey information from residents, a wireless access point and paid internet access, and an in-home server that manages the installed devices and data. The servers will be connected and managed with an enhanced version of the team's existing Piloteur framework for reliable sensor data collection in homes. Piloteur will be extended to support larger-scale deployment and changes in the standard technology package demanded by technology advances and research needs, and will add a layer for storing, securing, and sharing the data using existing open standards. Installation sites will be run by technicians supervised by the research team. The technicians will handle recruiting and communicating with participants as well as deploying and debugging the technology installations in the homes, and participants will be recruited to ensure diversity along demographic factors that should improve generalizability of results. The team will also develop materials to make it easy for other researchers to use and join the network. For those who want to access the existing network for individual studies, they will develop a HomeSHARE Study Packet that includes guidance on study planning and costs, technical aspects of the homes and data, and sample materials from prior studies that have been approved by Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). For those who want to join the network, they will create a HomeSHARE Site Kit that includes information about best practices around recruitment and installation, sample IRB materials for existing sites, and standard budget information useful for writing proposals to join the network. A leadership committee initially composed of researchers from the awardee institutions will oversee project management, including the coordination of studies using the network, the evolution of the standard technology package, the addition of new installation sites to the network, and the administration of the data sharing and costs.
1534304(Sarupria) & 1533874(Battiato)<br/><br/>This project addresses a grand challenge facing society today--how to make clean water available to a growing population at low cost. Membranes used in water treatment processes are exposed to feed waters containing organic, inorganic, and biological species, which leads to fouling and loss of membrane productivity over time. Since performance loss due to fouling is one of the largest costs associated with membrane processes in water treatment, discovery of new surface treatments that limit fouling would have significant economic and societal impacts. Fouling propensity of a membrane depends greatly on its surface properties such as chemistry and morphology. The goal of this project is to develop the multiscale mathematical framework to predict fouling behavior on the surfaces of membranes with different geometric patterns and chemical coatings. The ability to predict fouling properties of new membrane surfaces in silico will accelerate the discovery of novel membrane designs and decrease the time from laboratory to market. <br/><br/>In this project, comprehensive studies involving iterative feedback between computational modeling and experimental measurements will be performed to test two main hypotheses: (1) targeted combinations of geometric and chemical patterns on a membrane surface will significantly reduce membrane fouling, and (2) experimentally-trained multiscale computational models will accelerate the discovery of novel geometric and chemical surface modifications that significantly reduce membrane fouling. This research will (i) produce a mathematical framework and corresponding models to identify the physical mechanisms and geometric features controlling mass and momentum transfer through and over micro- and nanopatterned membranes, (ii) provide a deep understanding of how foulants and energy fluxes are controlled and regulated by complex topologies, and (iii) elucidate how the macroscopic behavior of filtration flow rates and reactive transport processes are coupled with phenomena at the micro- and nano-scale. This work will be transformational because delivering an experimentally-validated computational framework will enable rapid screening of many membrane surface modifications to short-list the most promising ones for further testing, and it will lead to a leapfrog improvement in membrane filtration technologies. This project will provide a multidisciplinary environment for training graduate and undergraduate researchers. New communication platforms such as Zoom video conferencing will be used to deliver virtual science demonstrations and laboratory tours to elementary school students. Virtual and interactive conferences will be held bi-annually to educate a broad audience about membrane science, water purification and materials engineering.
Faculty in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines face intensifying pressures in the 21st century, including multiple roles as educator, researcher, and entrepreneur. They typically teach at both the undergraduate and graduate level. They write proposals and secure funding to support students at multiple levels. They mentor undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral scholars. They present and publish their research outcomes in highly rigorous outlets. They are expected to communicate their research to a broad array of audiences such as the scientific community, undergraduate and graduate students, K-12 students and educators, and the general public. Societal needs of their expertise include discovery, innovation, and workforce development. It is critical to provide STEM faculty with the professional development to support their complex roles and to base this development on evidence derived from research. Much research has been focused on STEM faculty development in support of teaching and student-centered learning with less attention on the other aspects of the professoriate in the 21st century. Therefore, the proposed workshop will bring together participants who are scholars, practitioners, policy-makers, industrial partners, and thought-leaders to assemble a research agenda on faculty development focused on the STEM disciplines. <br/><br/>In this project a group of 30 experts will convene at Clemson University for a 1 1/2 day workshop. These experts will participate in a combination of plenary sessions and small group activities to identify the outstanding research questions associated with faculty development and craft a research agenda. The primary outcome of the workshop will be a set of effective STEM faculty development characteristics that can be implemented based on the outcomes of the workshop and explored in future projects. The findings and final report from the workshop will be disseminated through a project website, a collective blog, and presentations at conferences. Widespread dissemination of the report will spur new research on how to best support faculty in their role as educators of future engineers.
The advancement of science requires the development of new mathematical methods that can rapidly and reliably solve large-scale scientific computing problems. Any modern scientific computing tool and supercomputer must have the ability to effectively (and one hopes optimally) manipulate both the data and parallel computational processes to manage: (a) the load-balancing in parallel computation; (b) data migration between components in a supercomputer; (c) performance optimization; (d) task scheduling; and (e) storage/memory reduction and data compression. These and many other problems (such as electronic chip design and community detection in social networks) can be tackled using a family of mathematical optimization problems called partitioning that are formulated on mathematical models called hypergraphs. However, partitioning of hypergraphs is extremely hard in theory and practice. To tackle it, this research project will develop and investigate efficient and effective methods that are inspired by multigrid, which is one of the most successful classes of numerical methods for solving large-scale scientific computing problems. <br/><br/>The technical goal of this project is to carry out computational and theoretical investigations in algebraic and nonlinear multigrid methods for hypergraph partitioning motivated by various problems in the areas of computational mathematics and scientific computing. These investigations aim to provide breakthroughs in practical computational capabilities, modeling matrix-matrix (vector) multiplication, matrix partitioning, and general load-balancing for scientific computing applications. The results of the project will also deepen understanding of theory of multigrid methods applied to computational discrete optimization. In recent decades, multigrid-inspired methods for graphs (also known as multilevel) led to important breakthroughs in a variety of computational problems. However, in contrast to the multigrid-inspired methods for graph cut-based problems (such as graph partitioning and linear arrangement), multigrid-inspired methods for hypergraphs are relatively unexplored. This project aims to develop theory related to multigrid-inspired methods for discrete optimization problems on graphs and hypergraphs, of great practical importance in computational mathematics.
1542727<br/>Finneran<br/><br/>On March 9 two ships collided in the Port of Houston shipping lane. The Carla Maersk, which was carrying 216,000 barrels of methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), was ruptured and an estimated 200,000 gallons of MTBE leaked into the Port of Houston. MTBE is extremely water soluble, and visible sheens were absent within a day or two. Therefore, the "surface response" of placing hydrophobic oil skimming booms did not contain the MTBE, and a large volume likely diluted and dispersed within the channel. It is unlikely that standard "oil spill" responses will attenuate MTBE, and this research will provide the Port of Houston stakeholders with data to assist in the short and long term response.<br/><br/>The broad objective of the proposed work is to characterize how the microbial community responds to MTBE contamination in marine sediment, and to identify specific microbial processes that will attenuate MTBE with or without engineering intervention. This is the first time a spill can be tracked from its inception, and the data will assist in all future efforts related to both MTBE remediation and high volume spill response. The specific objectives are to: 1) use metagenomic sequencing and high throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing to determine both the shifts in microbial populations, as well as microbial activity related to the MTBE spill, and 2) quantify the native MTBE attenuation rates, and identify processes that can increase the rate and extent of biodegradation. These objectives will be met by testing the following hypotheses: 1) The microbial community will shift in response to MTBE and be dominated by operable taxonomic units previously identified in MTBE-degrading enrichment cultures and sediment incubations; and, 2) Sulfate-reducing microorganisms will dominate all MTBE degrading microbial reactions. The research will use high throughput sequencing of microbial DNA extracted from marine sediment in the Port of Houston to characterize the shift amongst microbial populations as they respond to MTBE contamination. In addition, the PI will use standard anoxic batch incubations to determine the rate and extent of MTBE degradation, and the projected pathway of biodegradation by analyzing known intermediates such as tert-butyl alcohol and tert-butyl formate. All anoxic incubation techniques have been previously reported and will be standard anoxic, glass serum bottles sealed with a butyl rubber stopper and sampled with anoxic-gas flushed syringe and needle setups. The proposed activity will be felt at the responder and practitioner levels. These data can and will be used to assist all future engineering responses to large MTBE spills. In addition, the basic scientific data can be used to identify specific microbial populations that respond to and possibly degrade MTBE.
1602451<br/>Mishra<br/><br/>South Carolina has recently experienced a severe drought followed by an extreme flooding that was initiated October 1, 2015. The combination of the extensive drought from the previous months followed by the historical extreme rainfall event will likely change the water quality dynamics in rural, agricultural, and urban watersheds. Specifically, the deficit in precipitation has likely led to the deposition of pollutants within the soil. During the extreme rain event and subsequent flooding, these pollutants have been discharged into waterways, with the result that stagnant water in urban areas may lead to serious issues of water quality. The drought-flood regime may affect water quality differently based on rural, agriculture and urban landscape patterns of the state. The combination of extreme events is expected only to increase, resulting in the need to advance understanding as to how these extreme rain and flooding events affect the dynamics of water quality. <br/><br/>The objective of this RAPID project is to collect perishable water quality related data that will lead to enhanced understanding, particularly regarding how these ever more frequent combination of droughts and floods extremes affect water quality in different types of landscape. Given the need for fast acquisition of environmental related data (e.g. the quality of urban stagnant flood waters are data that are perishable) the investigators will deploy rapid response teams to document quickly these real-time consequences of extreme floods. The scope of activities includes: a) collect water quality samples from rural and agriculture dominated watersheds following this recent historical flood event, to establish relationship between climate extremes and water quality parameters; b) collect data on stagnant urban flood waters, which may contain oil, chemicals and sewage that are a public health concern, for laboratory analysis; and c) perform sensitivity analysis to identify the water quality parameters that are mostly affected during this rapid transition from drought to flood. The combined impact of drought and flood extremes on water quality is currently not well understood. This research will bring new knowledge on the effects of drought-flood cycle on water quality at urban, rural and agricultural watersheds. The perishable data can be used to improve water quality model calibration based on a combination of extreme events scenarios. This project is anticipated to advance current knowledge on drought-flood impacts on environmental sustainability. Research findings can be applied to urban watersheds in southern and also south-western states (e.g., Texas and California) of the U.S. because of frequent combination of drought and flood events.
Graphene has proven to be a truly unique material and the record holder for a number of physical parameters. It is expected that employment of graphene as a highly conductive and transparent material would create a new class of electronic devices characterized by excellent durability and flexural freedom. However, despite recent significant progress in scaling up fabrication of large area graphene sheets the fabrication methods still require significant effort and sophisticated multistage handling of the material. To this end, this award targets the manufacture of highly conductive graphene-based films from micron-scale sheets of reduced-graphene oxide, which can be obtained from naturally occurring graphite. The manufacturing method in this project is environmentally friendly, does not involve toxic organic solvents, and utilizes conventional industrial equipment. The approach has a significant potential to rapidly grow to industrial scale and, therefore, increase the competitiveness of US based-manufacturing and create employment opportunities. In course of the work significant effort will be directed to increase the numbers of students, especially underrepresented minorities and women, who wish to pursue advanced degrees in science and engineering. Students will benefit greatly from this project's interdisciplinary nature and hands-on approach.<br/><br/>The ultimate goal of this work is the design and understanding of a robust and scalable nanomanufacturing method for the fabrication of highly conductive, highly flexible, and transparent reduced graphene oxide (rGO) based nano-scale layers or films via a facile dip-coating process assisted with polymer adsorbed layers. The method is based on enveloping individual graphene oxide (GO) sheets in few nm thick polymer layers allowing for near-perfect formation of the GO monolayer by scalable conventional dip-coating. After the dip-coating a polymer interlayer is deposited on the GO/ RMS (reactive macromolecular super-spreader) monolayer by adsorption. The polymer interlayer is employed to promote formation of the second GO monolayer (by dip-coating) and provide carbon atoms to connect the bottom and upper rGO monolayers during the GO reduction. This work directly addresses a number of the grand challenges for the large-scale nanomanufacturing of rGO-based conductive transparent flexible films. Specifically, it is expected that the research manufacturing method will allow the straightforward and reproducible fabrication of tight GO monolayers on non-conductive substrates, control of the thickness of the rGO layer with single layer precision, and achieve high coherency and robustness of the fabricated layer. In terms of properties, the project targets the manufacture of highly conductive (low sheet resistance) and transparent (low absorbance in visible region) rGO-based nanoscale films on non-conductive oxide surfaces.
Obesity is one of the most pressing health challenges faced by our country, and has been the target of much attention in the mobile health (mHealth) community. While the science of obesity indicates that diet is a major factor in behavioral change to encourage healthy weight management, we are still not able to effectively, quickly and easily measure eating and drinking behavior. This project's goal is to develop a digital earpiece, small and comfortable enough to wear behind the ear, that can sense and detect actions such as eating and drinking. The project's longterm vision is to enable behavioral health researchers to better understand health-related behaviors and, subsequently, to support the development of effective behavioral health interventions that promote healthy diet and behavior. Ultimately, a better understanding of eating-related behaviors, and better design of effective interventions regarding eating behavior, will have profound impact on personal and public health as well as the national economy. The project's hardware and software prototypes will be shared widely in the research community to enable experimentation around the sensing and interaction opportunities possible in an earpiece device. Furthermore, the project directly involves undergraduate and graduate students in interdisciplinary research, and outreach to middleschool students, expanding the supply of scientists educated in this important emerging topic. <br/><br/>The project's approach is to build a prototype wireless earpiece, small enough to wear behind the ear, with lowpower (microwattscale) electronics and software sufficient to allow for the battery to last a full waking day; to develop efficient algorithms for detecting and distinguishing healthrelated behaviors (eating, drinking, smoking, speaking, and stress); and to develop easy and effective means for the wearer to interact with the earpiece and its applications. <br/>The team expects to develop novel low-power analog electronics and distributed software algorithms for inferring relevant behaviors from sensor data; develop novel interaction modalities involving bone conduction audio between the earpiece and its wearer, complemented by tactile interfaces on the earpiece, on the skin, or on auxiliary devices like a wristband or smartphone; and validate these approaches through user studies and experiments inside and outside the lab.
Coastal landscapes experience a variety of environmental stresses caused by changes in land&#8232;use, climate, storm frequency and intensity, and saltwater intrusion. Research at the Clemson University &#8232;Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology and Forest Science (BICEFS) focuses on understanding how three major components of the landscape - water, vegetation, and wildlife - are affected by and respond to man-made and natural disturbances. Research at BICEFS spans from the heart of cities to the wildest places in the landscape in an effort to understand how these components&#8232;are interconnected. In the last three years, BICEFS has doubled the size of its faculty from five to ten, adding new research lines in wildlife biology, landscape ecology, and ecosystem service economics. This project responds to that growth by adding a 1110-square-foot screened lab to an existing lab building to provide new, flexible workspace to support new research initiatives, field lab activities, and training. The institute's location in coastal South Carolina enables outside activities year-round and therefore the design provides energy efficiency and simplicity for cleaning, maintenance, and project specific set up. <br/><br/>Like many field stations, BICEFS operates its labs and major equipment on a shared basis. Lab space is designated to various activities or analyses that support major research lines, rather than to individual investigators. As the faculty has expanded in the last two years, common space has been repurposed for more specialized uses and upgraded or new instrumentation has been added as part of start-up or state-funded initiatives. As a result, the lab is limited by available workspace for staging experiments, sample processing, instrument maintenance, etc. Various space studies have provided recommendations for lab space on a per scientist basis that is sufficient to support a vibrant research program and the development of graduate&#8232;and undergraduate research. To bring capacity up to these recommendations, a 1110-ft2 screened workspace will be constructed on the side and end of the existing laboratory building. The construction is a simple design, with a concrete slab, screened walls, and a metal roof. Basic electrical and plumbing hookups are included, as well as shelving, cabinets, and portable furniture. A walk-in cooler will be installed at one end of the space to store plant, soil, and animal samples. The flexible, all-season design facilitates research by faculty and students and, in part, that of collaborators from 39 other institutions that use the property. The design also facilitates lab-type classroom activities and workshops. The Institute's web site is www.clemson.edu/baruch.
The goal of this TUES Type 2 project is to incorporate sustainability grand challenges and experiential learning into classrooms and throughout engineering programs, with the aim of attracting and retaining a talented and diverse set of students who are prepared to tackle the engineering challenges of a global economy. The project team is developing and implementing three stand-alone sustainability courses and 14 modules at five partner institutions (Arizona State University, Mesa Community College, University of Pittsburgh, Community College of Allegheny College, and Laney College) and evaluating the effectiveness of the modules and classes on student, faculty, and program performance. Specifically, this project (1) creates and (2) implements ready-to-use content for three new stand-alone sustainability courses and fourteen modules, (3) evaluates the effectiveness of each course and module based on student and faculty feedback and performance, (4) evaluates the different degrees of program-wide curricula change: the stand-alone course method and the module method, and (5) disseminates the courses, modules, and findings to other institutions.<br/><br/>The stand-alone courses (Life Cycle Assessment, Green Buildings, and Sustainability Topics) and sustainability modules employ experiential learning, which has been shown in educational research to enhance the quality of student learning, and build on the team's sustainability engineering educational expertise. Flexibility is built into the stand-alone course materials and modules to accommodate the resources of different faculty and facilitate the adoption of these courses across different universities. The team is developing engaging activities for students both within the classroom and in the real world and increasing faculty expertise by mentoring numerous faculty over the four-year project. Moreover, the project includes well-integrated activities to address research questions on the effectiveness of the stand-alone courses' and modules' methods for incorporating sustainability topics. Evaluation includes student-centered evaluation of learning outcomes for each module and course, evaluation of faculty and institutional outcomes for the two different methods of course integration, and evaluation of outcomes from the collaborative project. Results are used to create recommendations on how institutions can best integrate sustainability and systems thinking into engineering curricula and to advance the understanding of faculty and institutional barriers to integrating sustainability and experiential learning into curricula.<br/><br/>This project creates resources aimed at different engineering courses across the range of undergraduate levels; the program is reaching hundreds of undergraduates at two research universities and three community colleges. This project has the potential to facilitate integration of sustainability education into existing curricula by developing flexible curricular material and identifying and minimizing barriers to implementation of sustainability education and experiential learning. Faculty development workshops and mentoring activities are employed to facilitate dissemination and adoption of the developed courses and module.
Subdivision-based algorithms can solve problems from a wide variety of applications in mathematics, computer science, and the sciences. For example, these types of algorithms are used in computer graphics, mathematical biology, computational geometry, mathematical modeling, robotics, machine learning, and mathematical computation. Subdivision-based algorithms are popular because they are relatively easy to describe and implement on a computer, and they are often efficient in practice. The work in this project is to quantify and improve the effectiveness of these types of algorithms. By studying the efficiency and providing algorithms to approximate solutions to problems which are typically considered intractable, the results of this project provide techniques which can be applied to practical problems throughout the sciences.<br/><br/>Subdivision-based algorithms recursively and adaptively subdivide a given domain into smaller regions until, in each smaller region, the behavior of a problem-specific feature can be determined. Subdivision-based algorithms are frequently used because they are parallelizable, recursive, and adaptive. More precisely, they use weak local tests and perform more subdivisions only near difficult features. These features that make subdivision-based algorithms practical, however, also make them challenging to study. For example, local tests make global topological correctness difficult and adaptive (non-uniform) subdivisions make the number of subdivisions difficult to bound. This project addresses both of the important questions of complexity and correctness for subdivision-based algorithms in the following two ways: (1) Using continuous amortization as a uniform method to compute the complexity of subdivision-based algorithms. (2) Developing topologically certified subdivision-based algorithms for geometric applications on algebraic varieties. This project extends the technique of continuous amortization to many different types of algorithms including iterative and two-dimensional subdivisions; additionally, the project develops subdivision-based algorithms to approximate previously intractable problems such as the medial axis and intersections of surfaces.
This project aims to accelerate the deployment of security measures for cyber-physical systems (CPSs). A framework is proposed that combines anomaly identification approaches, which emphasizes on the development of decentralized cyber-attack monitoring and diagnostic-like components, with robust control countermeasure to improve reliability and maintain system functionality. Within this framework, the investigators will (1) implement hybrid observers and active attack detection methods exploiting system vulnerabilities; and (2) develop and integrate cyber-attack control countermeasure at the physical system level to guarantee functionality and resiliency in the presence of identified and unidentified threats. Specifically, this project focuses on applications to connected vehicle (CV) systems where vehicles are capable of sharing information via dedicated short range communication network, with the goal of improving fuel efficiency and avoiding collision. The project's final objective would be to create a cyber-secure vehicle connectivity paradigm that incorporates cyber-attack detection algorithms and executes integrated fault-tolerant countermeasures at the vehicle level to support vehicle system resiliency and accelerate the future commercialization of automated vehicles. The research solutions of this project will impact safety, security and reliability of networked CPSs by helping accelerate the adoption of threat identification and attack resilient control countermeasures at the system and network level. The specific application to connected and automated vehicles should lead to a future market acceptance of these vehicle technologies with a potential improvement in traffic conditions, vehicle and personal safety, and energy consumption.<br/><br/>This project involves interdisciplinary research in cyber security for the development of more secure, scalable and reliable future networked CPSs. It proposes to conduct fundamental research on a model-based computational strategy that includes: 1) implement advanced threat models in a hybrid systems framework; 2) identify system and communication vulnerabilities especially in the dedicated short range communication network (DSRC) for CVs; 3) derive hybrid observer based cyber-attack detection algorithms based on stochastic quantized models and event triggered estimation; 4) establish active attack detection methods based on system vulnerabilities; 5) develop control counter measures for each CPS based on game theory and robust control methods; 6) derive control algorithms against malicious agents in the CV to avoid vehicle collisions; 7) develop computationally fast and distributed algorithms for the above six objectives; and 8) evaluate through simulation and experimental validation the capabilities and impact on the vehicle of the proposed strategies.
Seasonally flooded, freshwater cypress-tupelo wetlands are commonly found in coastal regions of the southeastern United States, from Texas to North Carolina. These wetlands are the main terrestrial source of natural organic matter (NOM) that causes the yellowish tea-colored water in coastal blackwater rivers such as Waccamaw River in South Carolina (SC). Importantly, the concentration of NOM is highly correlated with concentrations of total mercury and methylated mercury, mediating the bioavailability and transport of mercury in coastal ecosystems. On October 1-5, 2015, the interaction between a stalled extratropical cyclone (nor'easter) and hurricane Joaquin caused torrential rain and extensive flooding in a short period of time in the coast of SC, resulting in a large volume of NOM exported from the forested wetlands into the coastal blackwater rivers. Such large quantity of NOM exports on an unprecedented scale could potentially mobilize relatively stable and recalcitrant pools of mercury and carbon from the forested wetlands into the blackwater rivers. This highly interdisciplinary research will dramatically improve understanding of mercury and carbon biogeochemistry under extreme weather conditions and demonstrate the relationships within the context of ecosystems. This study represents a new and unique collaboration between four investigators with different specialties from three universities including two assistant professors respectively in a minority serving institution and an undergraduate institution. This study will also raise the awareness of the impacts of extreme weather events on low-lying coastal areas in the Southeastern United States. <br/><br/>Coastal wetlands are considered as important carbon and mercury sinks. However, extreme weather events under the changing climate could alter the equilibrium status, affecting the stability of carbon and mercury pools in the coastal ecosystems. The goal of this RAPID research is to study the influences of the extreme flooding on carbon and mercury cycles and associated biogeochemical processes in coastal wetlands and blackwater rivers. Specifically, the study will integrate field investigations, controlled field experiments, and hydrological computer modeling to examine carbon and mercury exports, sources, and temporal trends along the hydrograph of the extreme flooding event. The research team has been collecting water samples along the Waccamaw River since Oct 4, 2015, representing the rising limb of the hydrograph. Samples were analyzed for general water quality, dissolved organic carbon, ultraviolet absorbance, nutrients, cations, anions, total mercury, and methylated mercury in the filtered and unfiltered samples. To determine the carbon and mercury budget, a hydrological model will be used to estimate the total water discharge from this flooding event that went into Waccamaw River. The PIs will engage in a transformative research study to assess novel decomposition process routes of terrestrial organic matter in forested wetlands under the influence of extreme flooding event. The PIs contend that the novel method of using stable mercury isotope along the hydrograph of the flooding event, coupled with measurements of dissolved organic matter in water using ultraviolet/visible and fluorescence spectroscopy, will be useful for understanding the relationships between carbon and mercury in coastal blackwater rivers. Determining the temporal variation of carbon and mercury will be useful for developing a mechanistic and landscape-level understanding of how extreme flooding events affect the biogeochemical process of terrestrial organic matter in coastal ecosystems.
Data overload, especially in the visual channel, and associated breakdowns in monitoring already represent a major challenge in data-rich environments. One promising means of overcoming data overload is through the introduction of multimodal displays which distribute information across various sensory channels (including vision, audition, and touch). In recent years, touch has received more attention as a means to offload the overburdened visual and auditory channels, but much remains to be discovered in this modality. Tactons, or tactile icons/displays, are structured, abstract messages that can be used to communicate information in the absence of vision. However, the effectiveness of tactons may be compromised if their design does not take into account that complex systems depend on the coordinated activities of a team. The PI's goal in this project is to establish a research program that will explore adaptive collaborative tactons as a means to support situational awareness, that is the ability of a team to perceive and comprehend information from the environment and predict future events in real time. Project outcomes will contribute to a deeper understanding of perception and attention between and across sensory channels for individuals and teams, and to how multimodal interfaces can support teamwork in data-rich domains.<br/><br/>The work will integrate three disparate topics within human factors: multimodal interfaces, situational awareness, and adaptive systems. The PI will create methods to design tactons that take into account both context and the types of information needed by a team, by leveraging the multimodal aspects to develop quantitative and qualitative models and algorithms using physiological measures (in particular, eye tracking data). These in turn will inform the functionality of adaptive tactons that support collaboration by adjusting the presentation of information in response to various sensed parameters and conditions.
This research focuses on understanding the digital security and privacy needs of journalists and their sources to evaluate and design communication technologies that better support the fundamental operations of a globally free and unfettered press. Journalists -- along with their organizations and sources -- are known to be high-risk targets for cyberattack. This community can serve as a privacy and security bellwether, motivated to use new technologies, but requiring flexibility and ease-of-use. Many existing secure tools are too cumbersome for journalists to use on a regular basis. Moreover, these tools may lack important security and privacy-protecting features that are needed not only by the large and diverse community that is part of journalistic activity, but by other individuals and groups that may have a harder time recognizing and articulating their needs. By learning about the needs and constraints of the journalism community, this project will identify both technical and training interventions that can improve the daily security and privacy of journalists, the many communities with which they interact.<br/><br/>The researchers will perform in-depth interviews and usability tests with journalists and their sources. The insights gained will illuminate both the conceptual and technical issues they encounter with respect to cybersecurity. Using the specific risk- and resource-models relevant to these populations, the researchers will propose, prototype, and begin evaluating novel technical solutions to issues like communications metadata, as well as data management, syncing, search and permission controls, and the possibilities of trusted distributed key servers and "disappearing data." The results of this work will lay the groundwork for future technical advances, not only for journalists but also for use by researchers and organizations interested in implementing and testing these tools and processes for other communities.
1066658 (Landis). The aim of the proposed research is to identify the optimal disposal options and infrastructure for compostable bio-based polymers based on each of the three pillars of sustainability. To this end, the research team will quantify the life cycle environmental impacts of different disposal options (environment), evaluate organizational (society) and economic barriers (economy), quantify stakeholders? willingness to pay for infrastructure (economy), assess consumers? disposal habits (environment) and evaluate methods to alter disposal habits (society). These factors will be used to quantify the environmental end of life profile for biopolymers and to contribute to the development of compostable biopolymer infrastructure. The results of the study will contribute to the scientific understanding of infrastructure development for biopolymers, both from the perspective of best management practices, barriers to infrastructure change, and optimal disposal for compostable biopolymers. In addition, the study will result in a comprehensive analysis of consumer disposal habits in the food services industry and will identify optimum disposal scenarios that result in minimum environmental impact while maximizing ease of implementation through stakeholder based life cycle assessment (SBLCA). The research will contribute significantly to advances in methodological development of novel, integrated approaches to assess the tradeoffs and sustainability of a set of alternatives. The results of the project are targeted to aid in the fundamental development and understanding of models that incorporate aspects of human behavior and survey results into life cycle assessment. The project will contribute to multiple avenues of broader impacts from the proposed collaboration with Sustainable Pittsburgh and local businesses to the PIs? plan for incorporation of the research into curriculum and undergraduate research. Additionally, the PIs are collaborating with Shaler High School and the Carnegie Science Center to create modules that address composting and biopolymers in the environment. The collaboration with Sustainable Pittsburgh will connect local companies to the proposed research. The development of educational materials to be employed during waste audits at local restaurants (e.g. literature and creative methods of sharing information on composting) as well as the development of a Best Practices report and workshop for Sustainable Pittsburgh will provide a unique opportunity for the research to reach a broad range of consumers and business owners
Professors Pennington and Garcia and their colleagues in the Chemistry Department of Clemson University host a Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) site. This site is supported by the Department of Defense in partnership with the NSF Chemistry REU program. This Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP) brings ten participants annually from regional Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), primarily undergraduate institutions, and two-year technical colleges. Undergraduates perform research in the areas of advanced materials and chemical biology. In addition, the undergraduates are provided many opportunities for personal and professional growth and development through numerous workshops, seminars, and panel discussions on topics ranging from the fundamentals of instrumentation techniques, research opportunities in the various disciplines of chemistry, career planning and preparation, and the role of women and underrepresented groups in the sciences. The recruitment and selection process targets female and underrepresented minority students who, despite having academic metrics that limit their opportunities in conventional REU programs, feature noncognitive factors (positive self-concept, realistic self-appraisal, long-range goals, system navigation, leadership, and demonstrated community service) that indicate a strong aptitude for research.<br/><br/>The REU students perform research in two high impact areas: advanced materials and chemical biology to improve the health and quality of life of our society. Some of the areas of study available to students include examination of carbon nanotube-peptide composite structures, the synthesis and characterization of plasmonic nanoparticle assemblies, the synthesis of proton conducting polymer electrodes with applications to fuel cells, the development of nanocomposites and biocompatible surfaces, the study of quantum dots with applications to sensors and imaging, and the development of peptide-based chiral catalysts. The research training students receive in the lab, the professional development fostered by the workshops, panel discussions, and seminars at Clemson University, and the subsequent presentation of their work at professional conferences contributes to students' ability to successfully pursue a productive career in chemistry and related sciences.
The investigators are conducting fundamental research focused on the synthesis of a series of novel "vine-like" robots. Vines are found throughout the natural (and human-made) world. They have unique capabilities allowing them to adapt to congested spaces and/or irregular terrain, significant voids, and unpredictable dynamic environmental interactions. Robots emulating the capabilities of vines can extend the reach (literally and figuratively) of robotics into previously inaccessible domains and applications. This offers new and useful solutions across a wide range of endeavors important to society, including persistent environmental monitoring, field archaeology, medical procedures, and urban disaster relief.<br/><br/>Exploiting their combined expertise in continuum robots and biological vines, the PIs are collaboratively designing, modeling, creating, and demonstrating a series of innovative vine-like continuum robots. Coordinated basic research in the laboratory at Clemson and the greenhouse at Cornell is providing inspiration from biology for the vine-like robots, and returning insight from engineering to biology regarding open questions on mechanisms governing biological vines. The key innovations in robot hardware, representing a significant new direction in continuum robotics, are enabling unprecedented workspace reach via augmentation with passive and active appendages (artificial thorns/tendrils), and creating the ability to "branch" into new continuum "growth". The novel navigation and manipulation capabilities enabled by these hardware innovations are providing both new theoretical insight and innovative operational modes for robots. The overall results are pushing the range of access of robots to a new level, currently beyond the reach of the field.
With this award, the Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry Program in the Division of Chemistry is funding Professor Sourav Saha of Florida State University to develop new strategies and receptors that can not only discriminate anions on the basis of their electronic properties, but also capture and release the target anions in a reversible fashion under the influence of electrons and light. Anions and cations are ubiquitous, and have diverse structures, properties, and functions. Some play important roles in biological, chemical, industrial, and environmental processes, while others are toxic and pollutants. For these reasons, it is important to regulate these charged species with high precision and selectivity. Selective ion receptors can provide scientists with systems that are recyclable, reusable, and better suited for applications in environmental protection. The graduate, undergraduate, and postdoctoral researchers working on this project will gain an array of scientific knowledge and technical expertise, from synthesis to molecular recognition. Integrated outreach activities are directed at local schools, the public library, and at students from Florida Agricultural and Mining University, an HBCU institution. Through these efforts, Dr. Saha plans to engage young and underrepresented students in hands-on experiments to motivate them to consider the pursuit of careers in science.<br/><br/>The goal of this research is to develop new strategies to (i) discriminate anions on the basis of their electronic properties, (ii) capture anions and cations simultaneously in a cooperative fashion, and (iii) bind and release ionic guests in a reversible fashion under the influence of electrons and light. To discriminate anions in aprotic solvents, the Saha research team is exploiting the ability of -acidic naphthalenediimide (NDI) receptors to accept electron(s) from strong Lewis basic anions, form charge-transfer complexes with less basic anions, and engage in anion? and CHanion interactions with charge-diffuse anions. To overcome the ion-pairing effect that weakens the binding interactions between ionic guests and receptors, tweezers-shaped, ditopic ion-pair receptors are being developed by tethering two terminal NDI units with folded linkers that can bind cations. The hypothesis is that cation binding at the linker units should facilitate anion binding between the two overlapping NDI units and vice versa. During biphasic extractions, these ditopic receptors should selectively extract salts that contain less hydrated charge-diffuse anions from aqueous to organic medium, while the more hydrated hard anions should remain in water. NDI-based cationic metallacycles are being constructed to capture large charge-diffuse anions inside their cavities through anion/NDI interactions. The metal ion corners should mitigate the ion-pairing effects. The reversible redox chemistry of the NDI units and the tendency of their reduced forms to expel anions offer a new approach to release the captured anions from these receptors upon chemical, electrochemical, and/or photochemical reduction.
1510790<br/>Clemson<br/>Husson<br/><br/>One future possible source of energy is the energy released when low-salinity waters mix with high-salinity waters, such as when rivers reach the ocean. This "gradient energy" can be harvested through a process called pressure retarded osmosis (PRO). The PRO process involves water transport from a low-salinity source through a semipermeable membrane to a high-salinity draw solution. The objective of this multidisciplinary research and education program is to develop and study advanced thin-film composite (TFC) membranes that are designed for PRO. The proposed research is transformational because it will deliver TFC PRO membranes with high water flux, low reverse salt flux, high apparent power density, and an overall structure that can withstand mechanical stresses generated during operation under high osmotic pressures. These performance and structural characteristics will be achieved by incorporating unique, previously untested nanomaterials into the membrane structure.<br/><br/>Studies will test the hypothesis that incorporation of specific nanomaterials directly into the thin film active layer and as a separate, ultrathin supporting layer will yield a new class of robust PRO membranes with unmatched performance characteristics. The research will provide deep understanding of how chemical functionalization of the membranes and nanomaterial additives impacts their mechanical properties and performance. Investigations will examine the roles of loading and degree of functionalization of nanomaterials on membrane compressive modulus and strength. Performance measurements will use standardized protocols and models to determine water and salt permeability coefficients, structural parameters, and apparent power densities. With this knowledge, the team will be able to design TFC PRO membranes with the desired performance. <br/><br/>The project will integrate education and research aimed at improving public science literacy among individuals living in Upstate South Carolina and Western North Carolina by using entertainment media education and creating social media forums that facilitate discussion of science news. Partnership with a local television program that serves over 800,000 households in the nation?s 36th largest market will ensure that on-air science demonstrations and web-based science videos reach a large and highly diverse audience. It is expected that television promotion of the demonstrations and videos to local school districts will benefit students in the viewing area by illustrating the relevance of science and supporting science learning.
CAREER: InN nanowire based multifunctional nanocantilever sensors<br/><br/>The goal of this CAREER research is to design, fabricate, and utilize InN nanowire (NW) based multifunctional V-shaped nanocantilever (VNC) sensors for detection of analyte molecules in ambient conditions, and investigation of electrical signal propagation in neurons. The approach to attain this goal involves: (i) Design, growth, and characterization of V-shaped InN NWs, (ii) Fabrication of VNC sensor arrays utilizing the V-shaped NWs, (iii) Investigation of structural and electromechanical properties of the VNCs, (iv) Multimodal molecular detection using the VNC sensors, and (v) Investigation of electrical signal propagation in neurons. Success of this project will lead to the development of technologies that can have overarching impacts in the diverse fields of defense, homeland security, environmental monitoring, medical diagnosis, drug discovery, scanning probe microscopy, and neuro-medicine. <br/><br/>Intellectual merit: The project activities are anticipated to lead to the development of a viable and inexpensive fabrication approach for NEMS sensors that at present relies heavily on expensive electron-beam or ion-beam lithography. The novel transduction method based on deflection induced gating offers an innovative solution that addresses the critical issues of scalability and large scale integration in MEMS based integrated circuits. The multimodal detection technique to be utilized in this project can significantly enhance the reliability of analyte detection scheme. With their small size, low power consumption, and high sensitivity, the VNC sensors can be easily integrated with emerging technologies such as energy harvesting and radio frequency identification devices giving rise to miniaturized next generation systems and components capable of working remotely over very long durations. The approach for the measurement of electrical signals in neurons using an array of VNC probes can lead to significant advancement of neurology and neuro-science, by opening up non-traditional means for rapid and nanoscale characterization of neuronal signal propagation in-vivo. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: In the educational and outreach activities, the PI plans to involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year throughout its duration. Separately, he will also recruit one minority high school or undergraduate student to work on the project by participating in the SCAMP program of the university. The project activities entail collaborative and interdisciplinary research between one science and three engineering departments, which will significantly broaden the scientific and technical knowledge of all the students involved. The research results and activities will be disseminated to a broader audience through lectures in the South Carolina Citizen?s School of Nanotechnology program, development of a research website, and development of a graduate course.
Many nation states restrict citizen access to information over the Internet by analyzing Internet users' traffic and then blocking traffic deemed controversial or antithetical to the views of the nation state. This project explores an alternative end-to-end network architecture that removes the vulnerability of citizens to traffic analysis. The researchers propose alternative Internet architecture and protocol designs, assesses the impact of such designs on Internet stakeholders, and provide assessment methods for correctness, performance, and scalability of the alternative design. The project broadly impacts multiple domains and research communities, from the network security and anti-censorship communities to those who design and run the Internet. Assuring that individuals around the world can easily access information over the Internet is one of the core, driving principles behind this project.<br/><br/>Traffic analysis uses packet meta-data and side-channels to infer information about communication sessions, encrypted or not, running over a network. Proxy services make traffic analysis difficult by inserting intermediate nodes between packet source and destination, but their success is limited. They can be detected and blocked. The core concept binds communications sessions to dynamic, short-lived, and seemingly random Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. This fundamentally impacts multiple aspects of the Internet: the domain name system (DNS), IP addressing/routing, and packet forwarding. This EAGER project will explore the solution space (scope, capabilities, impact), identify strategies for realization, and develop a prototype to assess key properties of the approach. The project's intellectual merit includes host and network methods based on ephemeral, pseudo-random IP addresses, IPv6 addressing and inter-domain routing, and SDX architecture/functions.
High aspect ratio and high quality microchannels in transparent materials are critical in many important areas, such as micro-optics, microelectronics, micromechanics, and biomedicine. However, it is difficult to fabricate them using traditional machining techniques, due to the brittle nature and low thermal conductivity often found in transparent materials. Femtosecond pulsed lasers offer the potential to overcome these difficulties. However, the aspect ratio and quality of microchannels produced by femtosecond pulsed lasers are limited. This award supports fundamental research to enable significant improvement in the quality and aspect ratio of microchannels produced by femtosecond pulsed lasers.<br/><br/>The research objectives are to establish the relationships between (1) ablation mechanisms (spallation, phase explosion, fragmentation, etc.) and machining conditions (laser intensity, pulse duration, etc.); (2) ablation mechanisms and ejected particle size/velocity distributions; and (3) the size/velocity of an ejected particle and its capability of escaping a long channel. To achieve the first two objectives, a physics-based atomistic model, consisting of a molecular dynamics method, a Monte Carlo method, and a particle-in-cell method, will be developed, with laser parameters and material properties as the inputs. By predicting the distributions of temperature, pressure, and electric field within the materials, dominating ablation mechanisms will be revealed under different machining conditions. This model will also predict the sizes and velocities of the ejected particles by simulating the atom evolution during the laser-matter interaction. To verify the simulation outputs, the sizes/velocities of the ejected particles under the same conditions will be experimentally measured by the time-resolved pump-probe imaging technique. To achieve the third objective, outputs of the atomistic model, such as the temperature, pressure, and the sizes/velocities of the ejected particles after the initial laser-matter interaction, will be used as inputs into a subsequently developed smooth particle hydrodynamics model, to simulate the ejected particle evolution within the channel in a large time scale. For particles with given sizes and initial velocities, the model will predict their escape or redeposition onto the channel side walls, based on the temperature, pressure, and ambient environment inside the channel. Ejected particle moving dynamics, such as their transient locations and velocities, will also be observed in-situ using the time-resolved pump-probe imaging technique, and compared with model simulation results.
This award provides support for participation in three conferences on number theory held at institutions in the Southeast in 2015 and 2016. The 24th Palmetto Number Theory Series meeting will be held at Emory University in Atlanta, GA in September 2015, and the 25th Palmetto Number Theory Series meeting will be held at Clemson University in Clemson, SC in December 2015. The 29th Southeast Regional Meeting on Numbers will be held in the spring of 2016. These conferences are open and free to all participants, who include mathematicians of all levels: undergraduates, graduate students, post-docs, and junior and senior faculty. The meetings provide a valuable opportunity for regional graduate students and for faculty at primarily undergraduate institutions, who may have few or no other opportunities for professional travel. The meetings will continue to attract a demographically diverse participant base, including women and members of other groups underrepresented in mathematics. More details for the 2016 29th Southeast Regional Meeting on Numbers, including exact dates, a list of speakers, the location, and registration information will be posted on the conference websites as it becomes available:<br/><br/>http://www.math.sc.edu/~boylan/seminars/pantshome.html <br/>http://www.math.clemson.edu/~kevja/SERMON/<br/><br/>Each of the conferences features several invited talks, given by number theorists based outside the region, ranging from prominent researchers to graduate students. Speakers will be chosen to represent a broad range of active research interests within number theory. Each meeting will also feature contributed talks given by participants from within the region. The primary goal of these meetings is to provide the number theory community in the Southeast the opportunity to hear about recent research in number theory. The meetings attract prominent number theorists based outside the region, and provide regional mathematicians, particularly graduate students and junior faculty, with an opportunity to speak about their research. The meetings inspire collaboration and broaden the scope of existing research interests within the general subject of number theory.
This award supports fundamental research into the interactions of a fish-like body with a surrounding fluid, and the ways in which motion of the body can transfer energy and momentum for propulsion and maneuverability. The research builds upon recent results that show how the complex dynamics of certain types of fish-like bodies can be captured in the form of a relatively tractable nonholonomic constraint, that is, an algebraic relationship between the velocities of different parts of the system. This project will generalize and extend the consequences of this result, and clarify the variables that govern this class of fluid-structure interaction. Robotic platforms will be built to experimentally validate the theoretical insights. The ability to precisely maneuver small aquatic robots has many important applications, including the inspection of underwater structures, environmental monitoring, and underwater exploration. The results of this project will lead to improved design of aquatic robots with different shapes, sizes and propulsion mechanisms. The natural appeal of fish-like robots will be leveraged to recruit members of underrepresented groups into engineering, to develop attractive independent research projects for undergraduate students, and to demonstrate and motivate key aspects of fluid mechanics in undergraduate courses. The project provides a rich multidisciplinary research education and training environment, demonstrating synergy between subjects, including fluid mechanics, nonlinear dynamics, geometric mechanics, and control theory, which are rarely connected at the undergraduate level.<br/><br/>The motion of a fish-like body in water is governed by the changes in its shape, the creation of vorticity and the interaction of the body with such vorticity. The creation of vorticity imposes a nonholonomic constraint on the motion of the body. The primary aim of the research supported by this award is to create a mathematical framework that can illuminate the interplay of abstract shape variables and nonholonomic constraints on the motion of a body in water. Shape variables will take form of internal masses and rotors. The constraints in the form of vorticity creation will be modeled using discrete vortex approximations. Such models with the novel interpretation of vortex shedding as a nonholonomic constraint are well suited to understand and emulate the efficiency and maneuverability of fish, to investigate gaits and to design control algorithms for an aquatic robot. Aquatic robots propelled and maneuvered entirely via internal rotors or moving masses will be designed and provide a platform to validate the theoretical results.
The research focuses on the Monin-Obukhov similarity hypothesis, which is the theoretical foundation for understanding the surface layer of the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL). The hypothesis has been used successfully to scale many statistics (e.g., those containing the vertical velocity) in the surface layer. However, it fails to scale some other important statistics, such as the horizontal velocity variances and the large-scale horizontal velocity spectra in the convective surface layer.<br/><br/>The research will provide a more universal scaling framework for the influence of shear and buoyancy on the surface layer turbulence, termed multi-point Monin-Obukhov similarity (MMO). In the research, the PI will systematically investigate MMO through its spectral predictions and the spectral dynamics in the surface layer. Systematical tests of the predicted large-scale velocity and temperature spectra using high-resolution large-eddy simulation (LES) fields will be conducted. The research will be conducted in collaboration with Dr. Martin Otte at Computer Science Corporation (CSC), a research firm contracting with the Environmental Protection Agency.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit:<br/>The research addresses the critical issue of Monin-Obukhov similarity of the atmospheric surface layer. It is expected to further validate MMO through its prediction of the turbulence spectra and cospectra; it will provide an important understanding of the physical basis for MMO. Due to the central role of the Monin-Obukhov similarity in our understanding of the surface layer dynamics, the research on MMO will provide a new framework for analyzing and understanding the surface layer turbulence, and will have a strong impact on the understanding and modeling of the ABL in general.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts:<br/>The research has broader impacts in several areas. It will provide education and research opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students. Improved understanding of the surface layer turbulence and the ABL in general will be of importance to developing predictive models for atmospheric dispersion and diffusion, weather forecasting, atmospheric chemistry, wind energy, and land-atmosphere exchange. The modeling approach will also be important for modeling boundary layers with a strong pressure gradient (e.g., curved boundary layers) in the atmosphere and in engineering flows. Advances in these areas will benefit the environment and society.
Understanding the molecular behavior of frozen water is essential for predicting the future of our planet. Frozen water is present in the atmosphere -- in clouds -- where foreign particles such as mineral dust promote ice nucleation. Consequently, surface-assisted ice nucleation, i.e. heterogeneous ice nucleation, has a significant effect on cloud microphysics. This implies that it is important to accurately describe heterogeneous ice nucleation in order to be able to accurately model the weather and climate. Though theoretical and empirical descriptions have been developed, there is still no complete description of the requirements of the heterogeneous ice nucleation process, and no framework to know a priori if a given surface will be a good ice nucleating agent.<br/><br/>Through the synergistic experimental and simulation efforts, the foundation for molecular level understanding of heterogeneous ice nucleation will be built. The focus of this research will be to relate the effects of surface charge and lattice match to heterogeneous nucleation of ice with an emphasis on the free energy of formation and the nucleation rate. Straightforward molecular dynamics (MD) simulations will provide detailed insights into water behavior near mica surfaces and will be compared with experimental findings. In addition, the kinetics and thermodynamics of ice nucleation will be calculated from simulations. The research will provide the basis for building predictive models of heterogeneous ice nucleation that can be incorporated into larger scale models relevant to atmospheric chemistry and weather prediction.<br/><br/>The simulation tools developed and results of this research will provide the basis to answer several of the top 10 questions related to molecular behavior of frozen water as listed by Bartels-Rausch (Nature, 2013), which are essential for predicting the future of our planet. Phase transitions assisted by surfaces in aqueous systems are relevant to a wide variety of fields and processes including biological assemblies, surfactants, nanotoxicology, semiconductor industry, food industry and others. Also, the research presents several learning opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students in different forms. The collaborative nature of this research and the exchange program between the two scientist groups will expose the students to a multitude of tools used to study challenging problems in atmospheric chemistry.<br/><br/>The simulations will be used to develop informative videos to be used as educational tools as well as for recruitment of students into science and engineering. User-friendly modules that enable students to perform some simple molecular simulations, which can be used as supplements for class lectures to illustrate concepts in thermodynamics, kinetics and materials will be developed. These will be available to the scientific community free-of-charge. The results from the research will be published in peer-reviewed journals and will be presented in various national and international meetings.
The virtual reality field experiences (VRFE) application is a Unity-based virtual reality learning environment that uses an Android smartphone along with a Google Cardboard viewer or other commercial virtual reality viewer. The pilot content module, Grand Canyon Field Experience (GCFE), provides an interactive virtual learning environment along with curriculum and content support materials. Given that introductory geoscience courses are one of the primary STEM courses taken as a natural science elective by undergraduate students across the United States, the Grand Canyon VRFE module alone could provide a consistent customer demand. The VRFE application creates an easily distributable, immersive, virtual field experience related to a physical location. Thus there is a wide potential market across educational institutions, which could be further expanded to K-12 settings and training programs for industrial professionals. The societal impact of this technology is its exploration of new, improved uses for virtual reality as a tool for learning. The commercial impact of this project is as an educational application that engages students in immersive, interactive activities in a virtually-simulated context for learning. This I-Corps L project intends to engage in customer discovery to determine the potential for scaling and sustaining the application.<br/><br/>Field trips can be an effective tool for instructors to create situated opportunities for learning that are contextualized in a particular environment. Field experiences in the physical world can impact students' perceptions and knowledge related about subject matter. From pre-kindergarten to graduate education, as institutional resources are diminishing for effectively engaging large numbers of students in physical world field experiences, create effective alternatives are needed. For large universities with hundreds of students enrolled in introductory science courses, instructors are often unable to provide engaging field experiences due to a range of institutional constraints, including financial resources. Virtual field experiences, while understandably different from physical world experiences, also provide effective learning environments, including being useful for students who have access or mobility issues. The benefits of virtual field experiences related to increasing availability of and engagement with affordable, effective alternatives to physical field experiences are valuable affordances that invite ongoing research and development.
Recent advancements in the Linux operating system have enabled widespread use of lightweight host-based virtualization, or containers. Containers can be used to deploy workloads in High Performance Computing (HPC) and warehouse computing environments. However, research has shown that containers can have adverse effects on the latency of the application's network traffic, a metric that many HPC applications are sensitive to. This project addresses limitations of prior research that focus primarily on the mean latency in HPC applications but do not fully analyze variation in network latency as a factor in application performance. The project is to study, predict, and manage variation in network latency and its impact to HPC and warehouse computing application performance. Results will have impact to the sustained performance of HPC and warehouse scale applications, an area of national interest. <br/><br/>Results from this project will give insight and direction to new research in the characterization, prediction, and management of variation of latency in highly parallel systems. Research tasks include studying the tradeoffs of host-managed network traffic versus application-managed network interfaces in the context of containers, identifying the granularity of virtualization appropriate for high speed communication between workers in different computing platforms and how these choices affect message latency variation, and studying the effects of zero-copy messaging between Docker containers in combination with other network communication technologies. This project will develop a thorough characterization and analysis of the mechanisms for managing latency that have become available with recent technologies. The project studies technologies that are not yet widely used in HPC applications, including Docker containers in combination with SR-IOV, DPDK, Ethernet, and InfiniBand. Experimental design and testing of environment configurations and application resource allocation strategies will lead to the development and validation of descriptive and predictive models of the variation in network latency for the selected technologies, and will provide guidance for the development of best practice recommendations for configuration of container networking.<br/><br/>The project, with a focus on variation in network latency, lays the groundwork for a larger project to develop an experimental platform and framework for the evaluation of the use of emerging technologies in HPC and warehouse computing systems. Funds will support two Ph.D. students at Clemson University in South Carolina, an EPSCoR state.
Non-technical: <br/>This CAREER award made by the Biomaterials program in the Division of Materials Research to Clemson University will study the development of artificial implant materials with modified surfaces. These coatings are expected to resist deterioration and failure of implant materials by actively decreasing the circulating oxygen-induced material damage. The human immune system reacts to an artificial implant, such as a replacement hip or knee joint, by attacking it and degrading it chemically. Eventually, this implant could fail and then need to be repaired or replaced, and involves surgeries that could be too risky for many elderly and infirm patients. The immune system could still attack an artificial implant even under rigorously sterile conditions and even with "inert" materials, such as stainless steel. The studies carried out with this NSF CAREER award would lead to development of artificial implants with novel coatings that resist failure by actively preventing their chemical degradation. The proposed research would benefit society significantly by: (1) extending the functional lifetimes of artificial implants; (2) reducing morbidity and mortality risks, particularly among elderly and infirm patients; and (3) decreasing pain and inflammation that occur after implantation. This investigator plans to integrate the research activities of college students into this research. Additionally, K-12 teachers will be offered a summer course designed to help them incorporate biomaterial topics into their K-12 science classes. This award will address the current shortfall in science, technology, engineering and mathematics degrees by fostering interest in and successful completion of these degrees by underserved and underrepresented students. This award is co-funded by the Physiology, Mechanisms & Biomechanics program in the Division of Integrative Organismal Systems, and Emerging Frontiers program, both in the Directorate for Biological Sciences. <br/><br/>Technical: <br/>Human implantation of an artificial material into a human triggers the foreign body reaction (FBR), which leads to adhering of macrophages to the artificial implant materials (AIM) and damaging them via the release of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Eventually, ROS-induced AIM damage could cause the implant to fail, necessitating additional surgical procedures that could result in high morbidity and mortality risks. These hazards are currently unavoidable, as the FBR occurs under even rigorously sterile conditions and the accompanying ROS damages in chemically-inert implant materials such as stainless steel and fluoropolymer plastics. This CAREER award would enable the development of biocompatible AIMs that resist deterioration and failure of implants by actively decreasing ROS-induced material damage. The first aim of the project is to covalently link self-regenerating catalyst coatings based on N-heterocyclic carbine-ruthenium complexes to artificial implant materials such as polymers [poly(methyl methacrylate), polyethylene, polypropylene, etc.] and inorganic materials (hydroxyapatite, titanium, titania, stainless steel, etc.). In addition to the preparation of large number of substrates with catalyst coatings, linker systems and surface loadings, these modified implant materials will be tested against different cell cultures/media to establish the ability of these immobilized catalysts to reduce reactive oxygen before and after exposure to cells for up to two weeks. The second aim of this award is: a) to study damage to implant materials under simulated FBR conditions in vitro; and b) to visualize and quantify the production of ROS and inflammatory cytokines of macrophages reacting to catalytically active substrates. Additionally, this CAREER award would also contribute in reducing the STEM degree shortfall facing the U.S., particularly among underserved and underrepresented minority students, by integrating technical college students into biomaterials research, and teaching biomaterial concepts and topics to K-12 science teachers.
This team will use ground-based telescopes and computer models to detect and characterize exoplanets in disks around other stars. The team will apply novel techniques to detect gas giant planets that are still in the process of forming. If successful, these results would allow us to connect the initial conditions of the planet-forming environment to the kinds of planets that form. Inherent curiosity about how our own planet came to be attracts students from all backgrounds into STEM disciplines. The students involved with this project will have the opportunity to carry out research at one of the frontiers of modern astrophysics by exploiting data available from state of the art observatories and computational modeling. Previous students involved in this group have applied their experiences to careers in K-12 education, industry, national defense, in addition to more traditional research careers. This project will also provide research-based learning opportunities for students in the South Carolina State University - Clemson University bridge program, actively broadening participation of underrepresented groups in astronomy.<br/><br/>This program has three principal science goals. (1) Search for circumplanetary disks around companions orbiting Herbig Ae/Be stars: generate a uniform atlas of all archival high resolution M-band observations of Herbig Ae/Be, search for variable CO emission indicative of an orbiting companion, and obtain additional observations. (2) Search for dynamical markers of massive substellar companions. (3) Apply this group's thermochemical model to sources with observed OH and CO emission to test the hypothesis that OH primarily arises from the inner rim of circumstellar disks.
Undergraduate Research Experience (URE) programs have positive effects on student understanding of the nature of science, motivation, and academic performance. However, little is understood about how UREs affect students' views of research, their identities as researchers, and their beliefs about knowledge in engineering. Investigating students' researcher identities and beliefs about knowledge (epistemic beliefs) in the context of URE is important because they shape the students' perceptions, values, and interactions with others, which can then be translated to their classes and future careers. The outcomes of this study help develop meaningful ways for students to engage, function, and learn in research spaces as well as classrooms and laboratories. Findings also expand theories about identity and epistemic beliefs in ways that are specific to engineering fields. The goal of the project is to address the challenge of producing engineers who are well-equipped to tackle complex, ill-defined, and open-ended problems similar to those encountered when doing research. The results enable engineering educators to provide novel educational experiences, developing students as future researchers and engineers such that these experiences will have long term impacts. The project's broader impacts include benefits to fields beyond engineering that engage students in research. Also, by including diverse student populations in the study, a deeper understanding is gained about how students from different backgrounds, engineering fields, and types of institutions experience and benefit from participating in research.<br/><br/>The overarching research question for this project is: How do undergraduate engineering students develop their identities as researchers and their ways of knowing engineering through research experiences? There are four specific aims of this project. The first is to understand how undergraduate engineering students conceptualize and construct what it means to be a researcher. The second is to discover what factors the students think affect their researcher identity development. The third is to find out how these students describe what it means to know something in their fields. The fourth is to understand how students form their beliefs about the nature of knowledge and knowing during research experiences. A grounded theory approach is used to expand existing identity and epistemic belief frameworks to develop a theory within the context of research experiences in engineering. The three-phase study uses open-ended surveys and interviews to identify themes that answer the research aims and can be used to develop workshops. The intellectual merit of the project lies in developing an engineering-specific learning theory based on students' beliefs about ways of knowing and their identities as researchers. This theory is used to inform and work with engineering educators to find ways to apply research findings in engineering degree programs and UREs. Workshops for engineering educators focus on ways to incorporate the aspects of UREs that help build students' ways of knowing and their identities as participants in their research communities and their engineering fields.
The goal of this project is to enhance the development of students in the fields of coding theory, cryptography, and number theory. Activities with strong vertical integration components are introduced at the undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral levels to improve recruitment, retention, and training of students in these areas, including those from historically black colleges and universities and small colleges in the region, and to provide research growth and facilitate professional development for postdocs and early career faculty. Activities supported by this grant will give broader access to the latest research methods and results in coding theory, cryptography, and number theory, areas replete with theoretical advances and practical applications.<br/><br/>The research problems in this proposal center on automorphic forms and codes, modular forms and algebraic geometry codes, and cryptography and computational number theory. These topics allow entry for students via computation and exploration and offer the opportunity for both theoretical advances and practical applications. Activities in this Research Training Group project include curriculum and condensed research experiences designed to better prepare students transitioning from coursework to research; exam preparation modules to support students entering the graduate school admissions phase as well as those applying for candidacy; and working groups to broaden the research expertise of advanced graduate students and postdocs beyond their dissertation topics in addition to professional development and networking opportunities. The training through research involvement provided by this Research Training Group in Coding Theory, Cryptography, and Number Theory will develop a stronger and more diverse workforce.
By the end of the decade, the US Department of Transportation (DOT) will likely require all new vehicles to be Connected Vehicles (CV), capable of communicating with other vehicles and roadside infrastructure through wireless communications in order to reduce the number of crashes and save lives. The crash avoidance applications supported by vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) connectivity exchange safety critical information such as speed, location and direction of movement to assess the crash risk based on the proximity of vehicles. While standards such as Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) will play a key role, other technologies such as WiFi, LTE (cellular), or other emerging technologies, can lower overall systems cost as well as supplement the availability, coverage, and peak data rate requirements of DSRC-based systems. The South Carolina Connected Vehicle Testbed (SC-CVT) is located along a 10-mile segment of Interstate I-85 near Clemson's International Center for Automotive Research (ICAR) campus in Greenville South Carolina. Two specific example CV applications that will be developed are traffic incident detection and queue warning. These two applications provide a convenient starting point for illustrating how CV applications can benefit from advanced network technology that integrates multiple wireless technologies in a CV system.<br/><br/>Heterogeneous networks (HetNets) are networks that integrate and exploit multiple concurrently available networking technologies. For critical applications requiring resource allocation optimization in order to meet safety-driven performance requirements. This project is using a combination of Software Defined Networking, local computing provided by GENI racks, and control based on statistical learning theory to demonstrate optimized HetNet operation on the SC-CVT.
This Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Site program, Summer Undergraduate Research Experience in Solid-State Devices for Electronics, Photonics, and Magnetics Technology (SURE), at Clemson University, offers state-of-the-art, multi-disciplinary research experiences in the areas of electronic, photonic, and magnetic devices, including material and device design, processing, characterization and modeling, to diverse and talented cohorts of undergraduates from institutions with limited or no research opportunities. The program is intended for students who are rising juniors and seniors, majoring in electrical engineering, computer engineering, materials engineering, or related areas of mathematics, physics, and bioengineering. Micro and nanofabrication of solid-state devices are critical components of modern economic development, and diverse leadership in research on devices for electronics, photonics, and magnetics is a key to sustained US economic competitiveness. Yet many undergraduate students have limited exposure to advanced topics in solid-state device and materials processing technology resulting in a lack of awareness and understanding of the types of research problems that arise in the field. The SURE program will be centered on the philosophy of developing tomorrow's leaders in academic and industrial research on solid-state device technology. <br/><br/>The primary goal of the SURE program is to provide each undergraduate participant with a ten-week scientifically rigorous, intellectually demanding, research experience within a highly collegial environment of collaboration with faculty and other students. The program focuses on the development of the technical skills and critical-thinking abilities of the participants and on their exposure to substantive, representative research problems in device-related technology. It will also emphasize development of the participants' technical communication abilities through several professional-development seminars and workshops and enhance their understanding of the ethical and societal context within which engineering research is performed. The discoveries made during these collaborations will be communicated to the broader scientific community via publications and presentations. <br/><br/>This site is supported by the Department of Defense in partnership with the NSF REU program.
This workshop proposal focuses on developing a national agenda for research in broadening participation in engineering by those who self-identify as persons with disabilities, veterans, low income/first generation or members of the LGBTQ community. The effort to increase the numbers of students who study computer science and engineering is a national imperative. Furthermore, there is a need to ensure this workforce is representative of the nation's populations as a diverse workforce will spark greater innovation and creativity through the incorporation of multiple perspectives and experiences in the creation of technology. Efforts to create a more diverse workforce have often focused on interventions to recruit and retain under-represented populations. As a result progress has not occurred at a substantial rate as these efforts tend to be localized and not easily scaled. What is needed is greater research in understanding the various factors that impede and influence the full participation of these underserved groups.<br/><br/>The project will convene a workshop of thought leaders, including scholars, practitioners, policy makers and others from a broad spectrum of social science disciplines. Brought together from across the nation, the participants will seek to develop an understanding of how best to increase research capacity to better understand why these groups are so underrepresented in the computer science and engineering workforce. Participants will identify existing research and new research possibilities regarding computing and engineering participation by persons from the specified under-served groups. The goal is to help define the national agenda for areas of research in the field of broadening participation for these targeted populations in the engineering and computer science workforce.
Excessive energy consumption is a major constraint when designing and deploying the next generation of supercomputers. Minimizing energy consumption of high performance computing requires novel energy-conscious technologies at multiple layers from architecture, system support, and applications. One obstacle that hinders the exploration of these new technologies is the lack of tools and systems that can provide accurate, fine-grained, and real-time power and energy measurement for technology evaluation and verification. <br/><br/>This project bridges the gap by building Marcher, a heterogeneous high performance computing infrastructure equipped with cutting-edge power-efficient accelerators including Intel Many Integrated Cores and Nvidia Graphics Processing Units, power-aware memory systems, hybrid storage with hard disk drives and solid state disks, and high performance interconnects. The Marcher system supports the development of two complementary component-level power measurement tools for major computer components: (i) pluggable Power Data Acquisition Card (PODAC) for direct and decomposed power measurement and (ii) Software Power Meter (SoftMeter) that indirectly estimates the power consumption of systems where direct measurement is not feasible or too costly. <br/><br/>Upon completion of this project, both PODAC and SoftMeter will be made available to a broader community and researchers to establish their own power-aware systems. Marcher will be open to external research groups and provide users with comprehensive and detailed performance and power profiles to aid the research in energy efficient software design and system development.
This Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our Future (DMREF) grant is focused on the development of a new integrated multi-scale approach incorporating modeling and experimentation on sintering-induced deformation processes taking into account anisotropy phenomena. Sintering-induced anisotropy, one of the most fundamental aspects of powder processing, is poorly understood and cannot be predicted properly by the existing models and approaches. It is also technologically very important since many powder-processing approaches induce anisotropy. The project includes the study of the complex interplay between processing conditions and anisotropic microstructure-constitutive properties which will provide fundamental, basic knowledge and a novel practical approach to design and optimize the manufacturing of advanced ceramic and metal systems with programmable macroscopic characteristics and microstructure. <br/><br/>This research intends to establish a new methodology to optimize the sintering of a broad range of complex material systems including multilayered solid oxide fuel cells. The developed concepts can be used to design the processing of other multilayered material systems (e.g. sensors, actuators, solar cell packaging) or processing under applied stresses (e.g. hot-pressing, sinter-forging). The project also contributes to the general framework of processing approaches which are enhanced by experimentally validated simulations and which significantly accelerate the development of new materials and processes. The teams from the two universities will work closely with collaborators from the industry to continuously test and refine the simulation approaches. Co-PIs will also collaborate with researchers from the Sandia National Laboratories in the development of the multi-scale simulation algorithms. This integrated, collaborative research program provides a unique high quality learning opportunity for students.
Origami is the ancient art of folding paper into decorative shapes and geometries. Over the last several decades, it evolved and became a design framework for many engineering and architecture applications. Examples include deployable space structures, kinetic buildings, self-folding robots, surgery devices, and advanced materials. Origami folding so far has been considered as a static process. People typically focus on its design and geometry, or internal actuation mechanisms that makes the folding autonomous. This award supports a collaborative project that will investigate the fundamental dynamic characteristics of origami folding. In particular, the research will explore how to harness the extraordinary properties of origami for applications like vibration isolation at low frequency, recoverable impact absorption, and impulsive actuation. Furthermore, the research will produce design tools that can generate sophisticated folding patterns and assign material properties that are suitable for a wide variety of dynamic performance requirements. The results of this project will become the building blocks for the next generation of air, marine, and land vehicles, intelligent machines and robots, or smart infrastructures, enhancing their functionality, safety and sustainability. The findings will thus advance the aerospace, civil, mechanical, robotics and many other industries. Education and broadening participation plans will focus on student learning and community outreach at various levels and on the enhancement diversity through inclusion in the research activities of members of underrepresented minorities in science and engineering.<br/><br/>This research will, for the first time, rigorously investigate the dynamic characteristics of origami folding and develop its corresponding engineering potentials. Preliminary studies have discovered that origami with generic crease patterns exhibits many attractive properties via folding, such as zero/negative stiffness, pressure dependent multi-stability, and piece-wise stiffness jump. Such surprisingly rich properties and the corresponding dynamic responses will be analyzed in detail based on an equivalent truss-frame model, which transforms the continuous origami structure into a finite degree of freedom system. The truss frame model would also become the basis of a comprehensive synthesis tool that incorporates crease perturbation and optimization, so that the origami can be customized for prescribed dynamic performances. This synthesis tool will bridge the currently separated branches of studies: the mathematical theories of origami design/folding and the engineering of origami based applications. Overall, the new modeling, analysis and synthesis tools for origami dynamics will create a significant intellectual leap and build a strong foundation for many future related research and development efforts.
The 2016 Graduate Student Combinatorics Conference will be held April 1-3, 2016 at Clemson University, Clemson, SC. The main purpose of this conference is to bring together graduate students in combinatorics in order to educate participants about the many areas of combinatorics, provide a venue for sharing current research topics and open questions, have participants meet fellow graduate students from across the country, and provide an opportunity for students to collaborate on current research problems. The conference will feature two plenary one-hour speakers and a number of twenty-minutes contributed talks by graduate students. This will be the 12th annual conference in this series which was started in 2005 at the University of Minnesota. The conference will be publicized via email and information will be posted on a conference website. <br/><br/>The conference provides an opportunity for graduate students to learn about the current research in all areas of combinatorics, including algebraic and enumerative combinatorics, graph theory, design theory, and coding theory. The conference is designed specifically for graduate students and it is organized essentially by the graduate students themselves. Combinatorics faculty from Clemson and the invited speakers will act as mentors for the graduate students throughout the process. The conference promotes recent advances in research and exposition of students' research in a supportive environment.
The significance of the proposed project is that it will bring together computer science education and education researchers who have completed successful projects of various kinds, and synthesize the knowledge they have gathered in terms of published guidelines for educational research, i.e., "Common Guidelines for Education Research and Development" as published jointly by the US Department of Education and NSF in 2013. While this document is detailed in general information it lacks guidelines specific to a particular discipline. These workshops will focus on providing the computer science education community detailed examples of computer science education projects which incorporate Education Research. These examples will serve as guidelines to the computer science education community.<br/><br/>The goals of the project, to understand, synthesize, and propagate the essence of successful education efforts, will be achieved through two focused workshops associated with major CS education conferences. The first workshop in 2016 will be more formative in nature and help develop ideas, projects, and panels for discussion at the second workshop. The second workshop in 2017 will focus on engagement with potential proposers of computing education research and will promote their adherence to the guidelines and their development of well identified educational research questions and evaluation mechanisms appropriate for the type of proposed research.
A private land conservation tool, conservation easements, have become widely used in the United States over the past thirty years, and their popularity may correspond to tax laws creating incentives for private land conservation in the public interest. This research project will examine how shifting dynamics between conservation easement holders, easement donors/sellers, regional land use pressures, and connections to conserved lands are affecting the spatial pattern, public benefit and ecological integrity of conservation easements in different regions of the United States. These dynamics will be examined at the fine scale; national and regional policy structures will be linked at the land parcel-level. How public input during the conservation easement process affects the spatial use of easements, as well as the neighborhood effects of easements on adjacent and county-level land costs, will be analyzed. Results from this research will be useful to land use planners, both public and private, who will benefit from a better understanding of the conveyance process and the environmental outcomes. Students will be trained in database creation and assessment, strengthening the nation's scientific workforce. <br/><br/>Employing multivariate, spatial overlay, and time-series analyses, the relationship between political and legal factors and conservation easement propagation will be examined. Regional spatial datasets will be combined with the results from county-level easement donor surveys and both fine and coarse filter ecological integrity approaches to assess whether conservation easements whose purpose is to maintain biological integrity have a higher likelihood of contributing to reserve networks in their spatial arrangement than do other conservation easements. Whether this is more likely to occur in areas with public oversight in the easement placement process will be determined. How the environmental outcomes affect the easement decision process will be addressed. Theory will be advanced by examining the geographic effect of the easement tool, and how social factors may influence its use, in a single spatial and quantitative framework. Broader impacts will include better understanding of the complete conservation easement process for planners and land owners and the training of undergraduate and graduate students.
Non-Technical Description<br/>This Research Infrastructure Improvement Track-2 Focused EPSCoR Collaboration (RII Track-2 FEC) proposal is a collaboration between four institutions in South Carolina, Alabama, and New Mexico, namely Clemson University, the University of Alabama Birmingham, the University of New Mexico, and the University of South Carolina. The aim of the project is to extend the uses of the experimental method of optogenetics, which, since its introduction in 2005, has had a transformative impact on neurobiology. This method allows experimenters to activate individual neurons or groups of neurons, with high levels of spatial and temporal control, by flashing light on them. One of the main limitations of standard optogenetics is the inability of visible light to penetrate deep within living tissues. In this project, a system will be developed to allow the use of low-dosage X-rays, rather than visible light, as the activating signal. The project includes multiple opportunities to involve students, especially members of under-represented minority groups. Agreements are in place to host students from Winthrop University and Northern New Mexico College, which serve highly diverse student populations, in existing summer research programs at the research-intensive universities. The project also includes plans for mentoring junior faculty, especially in proposal development.<br/><br/>Technical Description<br/>This multi-disciplinary project involves step-wise development of novel experimental methods. First, radioluminescent nanoparticles (RLPs) will be produced that emit light when exposed to X-rays. The RLPs will be chemically modified to allow specific covalent attachment to a genetically engineered membrane-bound opsin protein expressed in neurons, ensuring close proximity of the two components for efficient transfer of the light stimulus. The system will be tested (for efficacy and the absence of undesired side effects) in cultured cells, then brain slice preparations, and finally in intact animals (rats and mice). RLPs will be introduced into animals by injection into the cerebrospinal fluid, through which the particles may diffuse into the brain. The effects of X-ray exposure on the behavior of immobilized and freely moving animals will then be tested to verify successful activation of neural cells in the motor and auditory cortexes.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating tunable microwave interferometer technology to fill the need for online monitoring of yeast cells and early detection of microbial contamination in fermentation processes. The proposed microwave flow cytometer (FC) is important because it provides essential information to optimize the fermentation process, improve production yield, monitor microbial contamination, and control product quality in various industries, including the bioethanol fuel, brewing and distilling industries. American companies in these industries support millions of jobs and produce several hundred billion dollars' worth of economic outputs annually. Improving productivity and reducing financial loss caused by microbial contaminations are critical for their continued prosperity and growth. <br/><br/>The microwave flow cytometer has the following unique features: reagent free cell detection and identification, robust operation, and user friendly instrumentation. These features provide the following advantages: low cost operation, online counting of viable and nonviable yeast cells, and early detection of microbial contamination when compared to the leading competing technologies in the market space, such as optical density (OD) detection, radio-frequency biomass sensing, microscopy based cell counting, staining based viability evaluation, and chemical reaction based yeast activity monitoring.<br/><br/>This project will result in a proof-of-concept demonstration of microwave flow cytometer technology for accurately counting yeast cells (cells/mL) at high speed, determining yeast physiological state (viability and vitality), and identifying typical wild yeasts and bacteria in typical fermentation processes. A preliminary database of the microwave properties and signatures of these microorganisms will be obtained. This project will address the following knowledge and technology gaps: the microwave properties and signatures of typical fermentation yeasts and bacteria, the appropriate FC frequencies for individual yeast cell and bacteria detection and differentiation, and the techniques for the design, fabrication and operation of microwave flow cytometers. <br/><br/>In addition, personnel involved in this project, including undergraduate and graduate students, will receive innovation experience through characterizing the microwave properties of yeast cells and identifying their signatures. The students will receive technology translation experience through developing user friendly microwave flow cytometer instruments. They will also receive entrepreneurship experience through close interactions with the industrial partners of the project.<br/><br/>This project engages Ferm Solutions and Wilderness Trail Distillery in Danville, KY to provide test environment and commercialization guidance in this technology translation effort from research discovery toward commercial reality.
The number of older persons in the United States is substantially increasing, as is the cost of health care. Accompanying these trends is a growing scarcity of caretakers, care deliverers, and care facilities to attend to our growing elder population. Technology supporting health for older adults tends to be limited to computerized monitoring systems and, potentially someday in the future, as assistive 'humanoid' robots that look and function something like us. Our homes and their many furnishings, meanwhile, remain conventional, low-tech, and maladaptive to life changes. To promote independent living, this research team from architectural design, robotics, and human factors explores how our homes can be outfitted with furnishings of advanced functionality. This project, home+, is a collection of robotic home furnishings that fits easily into any conventional home to increase the quality of life of individuals with impaired mobility and cognitive functioning by enabling routine domestic activities. This research project will: (1) establish the needs and wants of older people wishing to age in place, identifying those aspects of the home+ concept that best promise to support independent living; (2) design robotic furnishings, accordingly; (3) test these furnishing to determine how well they interact with each other and with the people that use them; (4) define the choreography by which these furnishings and their users interact; and (5) evaluate how well home+ supports typical users performing ten routine home tasks that define a capacity for independent living. The team will gain insights not only from the targeted populations and healthcare professions who may benefit most by home+, but also from a wider audience. This outreach aspect of the home+ project will culminate in a workshop that seeks marketplace and practice support for advancing the prototype. <br/><br/>The majority of seniors want to age in place in their homes. To realize this goal, this project will: (1) conduct a needs assessment of older adults; (2) iteratively co-design and usability test robotic furnishings that recognize, communicate with, and partly remember each other in interaction with human users (interoperability); (3) define the pattern language of interactions for this cyber-human system; and (4) evaluate the efficacy of home+ by comparing performance on 10 routine home tasks defining a capacity for independent living for individuals with and without home+. Drawing on research and formalism in distributed robotics, the team will focus efforts on implementing and evaluating three software environments for home+: (1) a centralized architecture, with all sensory information, processing, command and control at a single source; (2) a distributed architecture, with localized sensing, processing, and control, and minimal interactions between elements; and (3), a combination of the first two, with a dedicated interface layer between the high-level strategies of (1) and the reactive behaviors of (2). Intellectually, this approach can be viewed as establishing a bridge between traditional robotics and smart, robotically enhanced, physical built environments.
The relatively flat southeastern US coastal plain, from North Carolina to Texas, is particularly susceptible to sea level rise. As sea level rises, the boundary between the low-lying coastal freshwater forest and high marsh moves upslope. Highly productive forested wetlands are replaced successively by degraded wetlands and eventually by coastal salt marsh. Not only does saltwater intrusion change vegetation composition, high halide levels (called halogens) can interact with the large pool of soil organic matter through halogenation processes that are still poorly understood. These halogenation processes are important to elucidate as they produce volatile halocarbons that act as ozone-depleting compounds in the atmosphere. Halogenation of organic matter may also affect the decomposition rates of organic matter. This interdisciplinary research will improve our understanding of chlorine and bromine biogeochemistry and demonstrate the importance of halogens in carbon cycling. This collaborative research represents a new collaboration between four investigators with different specialties from universities in the northeast, southeast and western United States. Graduate and undergraduate students will have opportunities to interact with citizen scientists in an on-going EarthWatch project and learn how to disseminate the scientific knowledge to the general public. This study will also raise the awareness of the impacts of sea level rise on low-lying coastal areas in the Southeastern US.<br/><br/>Halogens have historically been treated as inert elements in natural humification processes. However, numerous recent studies have demonstrated that chlorine and bromine are active components in C cycles. The overall goal of this research is to assess novel decomposition process routes of terrestrial organic matter in forested wetlands with high levels of chloride and bromide. The research project includes both field investigations and controlled experiments to determine the impacts of sea level rise on C and halogen biogeochemical cycles along salinity gradients in Winyah Bay, South Carolina. Fluxes of halogenated ozone depleting C compounds and greenhouse gases, as well as concentrations of organochlorine and organobromine in soil and litter and water will be quantified along salinity transects and within controlled plots. The research team contends that the novel method of determining X-ray absorption near edge structures (XANES) of halogenated organic matter in soil and detritus layers, coupled with measurements of halocarbon emission and composition in water using Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance Mass Spectrometry (FT-ICR MS), will be useful in understanding the roles of halogens in C cycling. Determining the seasonal variation of halocarbon in air, soil, and water from freshwater forested wetland, salt-degraded wetland, and salt marsh sites, representing the transition of coastal wetland under sea level rise, will be useful in developing a mechanistic and landscape understanding of how sea level rise affects decomposition, humification, and halogenation processes of terrestrial organic matter in coastal wetlands. The controlled field experiments using different concentrations of chloride and bromide waters would illustrate their roles in humification and decomposition processes.
The "Carolina Dynamics Symposium" is a continued two day weekend conference, which will take place in April 2016 at Furman University Greenville, SC and in April 2017 at Agnes Scott College, Atlanta, GA. In April 2018 it will be hosted either by the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, the University of Charleston, or by Wake Forest University.<br/><br/>The Carolina Dynamics Symposium is a two day conference that has been taking place for thirteen years at different colleges and universities in the Carolinas and Georgia. In addition to the traditional lively interaction among mathematicians from the Southeast there have been hour talks by invited leaders in the field from outside the region. The Carolina Dynamics Symposia feature one plenary speaker who will deliver a public lecture on the Friday before the conference begins, as well as about three hour-long plenary speakers during the conference weekend. All meetings will also have twenty to thirty minute contributed talks and invited talks from Southeastern participants. Typically a significant number of talks are given by (graduate) students and young researchers. The conferences have led to successful research projects and publications in the past. We are continuing a very successful model with participants of diverse levels and backgrounds, among those a particularly large number of female participants, speakers and organizers.<br/><br/>For further information on the Symposium, we maintain a webpage: http://www.devio.us/~ppunosevac/cdynsys/pmwiki.php?n=Main.Announcements.
This project will investigate the use of virtual reality technologies to create virtual field experiences for use in introductory geosciences classes. Although field experiences are an important aspect of geoscience education, there are few opportunities to provide physical world experiences to many undergraduate students due to access, logistical, and financial constraints. Thus, geoscience instructors must develop novel teaching and learning opportunities that closely approximate the information, elements, and environment students would find on a physical, in-person field study. The types of virtual experiences developed through this project, while different from their physical corollaries, will give learners the chance to engage with learning content and activities through multi-modal interactions in the virtual environment. The use of virtualization tools will create opportunities that give geoscience educators access to interactive, contextualized teaching materials, and learners access to a space for exploration and discovery. The development of virtual reality field experiences will also create a pathway for a diverse audience of students to encounter the earth sciences, particularly those from underrepresented groups, resource-limited institutions, and majors traditionally not directly involved in the earth sciences. Enhancing access to educational opportunities for these groups will aid in developing the engaged, diverse and earth-science literate population that is needed to address societal needs in a complex and changing world.<br/><br/>The project will develop a virtual reality field-trip of the Grand Canyon that will be accessible to a wide audience in diverse educational settings. Through the experience, students will develop core geoscience concepts as they find and evaluate evidence that will help them piece together the geologic history of the region. In the virtual experience, students will apply their knowledge of rock and mineral properties, build their understanding of spatial and temporal relationships between Earth processes, learn how these relationships are recorded in the rock, and ultimately synthesize their observations into a coherent geologic story that they will encapsulate in lay terms as a virtual brochure for the Canyon. The project will also develop a virtual reality toolbox for earth science educators that will facilitate the future development of additional virtual field activities. The project will utilize new innovations in the field of virtual reality, e.g., Oculus Rift technology, to provide geoscience educators the means to give every student a first-person virtual field experience. The virtual field experiences will be designed to emphasize key aspects of geoscience learning (i.e., temporal thinking, spatial thinking, earth systems, and field learning) and integrate the 'Big Ideas' in geoscience proposed by the Earth Science Literacy Initiative. The specific learning activities that will be developed in the project are strongly grounded in the existing geoscience education, STEM education, and game-based learning literature and will utilize built-in learning analytics for improved assessment of student learning. By addressing both the affective and cognitive routes to learning, this approach holds promise to increase student engagement and concept retention in the classroom.
The objective of the EAGER research is to explore the feasibility of developing a novel photoacoustic chemical and biological sensor utilizing vacuum enclosed piezoresistive GaN microcantilever as a highly sensitive ultrasonic sensing element. The sensor will be utilized to perform detection in both air and liquid media and can potentially offer: (i) detection of surface adsorbed or deposited analytes at femtogram level with high specificity, and (ii) unique label-free detection of bio-analytes in a liquid medium. Ultra high sensitivity of the sensor will be attained using a resonant GaN microcantilever enclosed in vacuum, with integrated AlGaN/GaN heterostructure field effect transistor as a highly sensitive deflection transducer. To attain the basic objective of this project, the following tasks will be performed:(i) Design of the photoacoustic sensor through theoretical modeling and finite element simulations; (ii) Fabrication of the piezoresistive microcantilever and integration of microfluidic channels; (iii) Packaging and electromechanical characterization of the sensor; and (iv) Performance evaluation of the sensor for analyte detection in air and liquid media Piezoresistive GaN microcantilevers will be fabricated using standard photolithographic process and packaged in high vacuum to achieve high resonance quality factor. For detection in air, surface deposited or adsorbed analyte near the cantilever base will be exposed to IR radiation to perform highly sensitive and selective detection, based on photoacoustic waves generated in solid. For detection in liquid, a PDMS based analyte reservoir connected to microfluidic channels will be patterned near the cantilever base, which will allow analyte flow and combined spectroscopic and multimodal detection of blood cells. The fabrication of the microcantilever sensors will be performed at the Georgia Tech Nanofabrication Facility, while the sensor packaging will be done in the PI's lab at USC. <br/><br/>Intellectual Merit:<br/>The proposed EAGER research will focus on validating novel sensing concepts that can lead to the development of high-performance and versatile sensors with much superior characteristics compared to the state-of-the-art sensing technologies for analytes in air and liquid media. Firstly, the proposed piezoresistive microcantilever sensors is expected to exhibit orders of magnitude higher sensitivity compared to the state-of-the-art Si cantilevers due to the unique piezoelectric properties of III-V Nitride semiconductors. Secondly, the innovative concept of vacuum enclosure of the resonant microcantilever sensor coupled with photoacosutic sensing, will further enhance the sensitivity by orders of magnitude due to quality factor enhancement, while completely eliminating cantilever degradation, which is a major challenge for cantilever sensors utilizing functionalization layers for detection. Thirdly, integration of microfluidic channels and functionalization layers to concentrate the analytes near the cantilever base will minimize signal loss, and tremendously increases signal-to-noise ratio, thereby eliminating the need for acoustic focusing and confinement using a macroscopic cell, which is a significant drawback for current state-of-the-art photoacoustic sensors. Overall, the EAGER research can have a transformative impact on the science and technology of piezoresistive cantilever sensors and photoacoustic sensing methodologies, spurring aggressive development of next generation of miniaturized and high performance photoacoustic sensors.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts:<br/>This highly interdisciplinary project is anticipated to result in the development of novel photoacoustic sensors with potential applications in the diverse fields of defense, homeland security, environmental monitoring, drug discovery, implantable sensors, and disease diagnosis and prognosis. As a part of the educational and outreach activities, the PI would involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year throughout its duration. Participation of the project activities would provide broad interdisciplinary training of the graduate student involved. The PI would integrate research results in a graduate course, and disseminate them through conference participation and various websites.
The ADVANCE program is designed to foster gender equity through a focus on the identification and elimination of organizational barriers that impede the full participation and advancement of women faculty in academic institutions. Organizational barriers that inhibit equity may exist in areas such as policy, practice, culture, and organizational climate. The ADVANCE Institutional Transformation (ADVANCE-IT) track supports the development of innovative organizational change strategies within an institution of higher education to enhance gender equity in the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines.<br/><br/>Clemson University will implement TIGERS ADVANCE (Transforming the Institution through Gender Equity, Retention, and Support): a set of policy changes, procedural innovations, and institutional programs to improve the representation and status of women in STEM at Clemson. TIGERS ADVANCE has five goals: (a) transform the culture and improve the campus climate, (b) increase the representation of women in STEM disciplines, (c) ensure equitable workload distribution, (d) enhance faculty mentoring and leadership development, and (e) implement family-friendly policies. The social science research project embedded in the project will focus on chairs' decision making related to service assignments and workload among faculty. <br/><br/>Clemson University's ADVANCE-IT project is grounded in organizational identity theory. This is an innovative approach that envisions fostering individual identification with the university by creating the conditions for fair treatment of and improved institutional support for all faculty. Clemson is the leading STEM education institution in South Carolina, and will work through a regional network of institutions of higher education to communicate findings, provide policy recommendations, and share best practices to ensure recruitment, advancement, and retention of STEM women faculty.
The Ceramic, Composite and Optical Materials Center (CCOMC) is an NSF Phase II, I/UCRC which is managed by Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey (Rutgers) and Clemson University (Clemson). The Center is integrated between the two university partners and is directed by an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) comprised of 21 multinational member companies and national laboratories. The mission of the CCOMC is to develop new, interdisciplinary technologies to increase the level of ceramic, polymer and optical material science, technology and engineering and to transfer these technologies to its industrial members to foster the development of competitive, reproducible ceramic, polymer fiber and composites made of them for advanced, high performance systems. The continuation proposal aims to broaden the scope of the Center to new areas that are technologically complementary and will lead towards the Center?s long terms self-sufficiency. <br/>The programs within the Center focus on the creation of new materials, new synthesis and processing methods, process based models, measurements and characterization methods for complex, integrated systems and devices. CCOMC began with program thrusts in ceramic and polymeric materials and processing, nanoparticulates and processes, opaque armor ceramics, optical material synthesis and processing and materials for energy conversion. As we move forward into the next five years, we will expand the scope of our research to include new research thrust areas in ceramic matrix composites and superhard, high temperature material. In addition we will explore green/ecofriendly processing as potential thrusts. It is critical to long-term self-sufficiency that we not only attract a broader base of members, but also be successful in securing Federal funding to strengthens new and existing thrusts to improve the visibility of the Center within both universities and abroad.
This Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program grant supports fundamental research on the design of urban buildings that can be readily remodeled, upgraded, expanded or otherwise adapted. Buildings that cannot adapt are at risk of becoming obsolete, and recent surveys of building demolitions in select metropolitan areas have revealed that obsolescence, not structural failure, is the leading reason for demolition. In response, this research will study domestic and international building projects to identify the physical aspects of buildings that make them likely to be demolished or adapted. Findings from the research will be used to create tools that architects and engineers can apply to design adaptable urban buildings. Such buildings will promote economic, social, and environmental sustainability of cities as they address unprecedented and accelerating trends in urbanization, climate change, and technological advancement. University students and industry practitioners will participate in all phases of the research and will be instructed on the theory and practice of adaptable building design. <br/><br/>There is need to transform current prediction-based design practices, which are incomplete with regard to changing demands and obsolescence. To that end a Learning Buildings Framework (LBF) will be created by integrating graph theory, risk analysis concepts, the Delphi Method, and adaptability theories from manufacturing engineering. The LBF will be the first quantitative and rigorously tested method for evaluating design-based building adaptability. Data for validation will be compiled through partnerships with domestic and international engineering, architecture, and construction companies, and will provide an orders-of-magnitude increase in the quality and quantity of empirical data on building demolition and adaptation. By providing a means of quantifying adaptability, the research will give traction to the "design for adaptability" philosophy that has been widely discussed yet narrowly implemented. Relationships established in the course of this research will support development of an international research and education program on adaptable urban infrastructure.
Every day, we are confronted with an abundance of decisions that require us to choose from a seemingly endless number of choice options. Recommender systems are supposed to help us deal with this formidable task, but some scholars claim that these systems instead put us inside a "Filter Bubble" that severely limits our perspectives. This project investigates a new direction for recommender systems research with the main goal of supporting users in developing, exploring, and understanding their unique personal preferences. The project will develop a new type of recommender system: a Recommender System for Self-Actualization (RSSA), which will support decisions that have a resounding influence on our life (e.g., choosing an education or a job) where we do not want to just take the easiest option, but rather to develop ourselves into unique individuals with a strong sense of determination that we have chosen the right path.<br/><br/>In contrast to most existing recommender systems research, this project carefully considers the psychology of consumer choice processes and develops new types of recommendations to support these processes in novel ways (the RSSA features). The PI's team will develop a new recommender system outfitted with the capability to display a traditional Top-N recommendation list, plus each new RSSA feature. The team will then test the benefit of each RSSA feature against traditional Top-N recommendations in an online user experiment. This benefit will be measured by participants' subjective evaluation of the system and their usage behavior logs.
The functioning of interdependent critical infrastructures such as water, electricity, gas, transportation and telecommunications is highly reliant on sensors, data networks, and control services that are enabled by computer hardware and software systems, which in turn cannot function without electric power and sufficient cooling capacity. The interdependency and interconnected nature of these cyber-physical systems has increased the possibility that a minor disturbance in one infrastructure can cascade into a regional outage across several infrastructure systems. The human response to such outages, both on the supply and demand sides, is crucial and mainly influenced by the perception of emerging risk and the ability to take rational decisions. This project is developing a framework for modeling collaborative adaptive capabilities that are driven by human cognitive abilities and preferences in order to minimize the risk of cascading failures across infrastructure systems. The cyber-physical-psychological interplay investigated in this project will have widespread benefits to infrastructure managers, emergency response teams and policy makers enabling them to more effectively deal with emerging crises. This project also offers inter-disciplinary research opportunities for undergraduates and underrepresented students in addition to graduate student mentoring.<br/><br/>The research objective is to advance real-time predictive capabilities of cascading failures across interdependent critical infrastructures by aligning the simulation model architecture with human adaptive preferences to enable rational decision making in the face of emerging unprecedented risks. Three interconnected tasks will be undertaken to achieve this objective: (1) the cognitive abilities and adaptation preferences of infrastructure control room operators (and organizations they represent) will be modeled using cognitive task analysis techniques; (2) an integrated real-time simulation model for electricity-gas-water networks will be developed through time-synchronization of individual dynamic simulation models using a system-in-the-loop framework; and (3) the capabilities of computational intelligence techniques such as cellular computational networks in predicting near-future system states will be evaluated. Particular attention will be paid to the ability of infrastructure operators to visualize an emerging threat through the developed model architecture and embedding their adaptive preferences in the predictive modeling framework to rationalize response decision making. This project will advance understanding of both spatial and temporal extents of cascading failures through continuous learning of the simulation model using real-time monitoring data from SCADA systems. With advancements on several fronts, the research outcomes will contribute to realizing autonomous adaptive control of critical interdependent infrastructures.
This project is funded by the Chemical Measurement and Imaging Program of the Chemistry Division at the National Science Foundation. Professor R. Kenneth Marcus and collaborators at Clemson University are developing and characterizing capillary-channeled polymer (C-CP) fibers as stationary phases for rapid processing of synthetic and large biological molecules. These stationary phases are amenable to a wide range of instrumentation formats and offer advantages for the separation of mixtures. The goal of the studies is to produce efficient and selective separations in an economical manner. This work is interdisciplinary, involving collaborative efforts between research groups in chemistry, bioengineering, mathematical and materials sciences. The project includes investigators affiliated with the Clemson University Center for Advanced Engineering of Fibers and Films. There are also collaborations with federal laboratories. If successful, the project may result in new commercial ventures in the textile and biopharmaceutical industries in South Carolina. Enhanced capabilities for large molecule separations have implications across many commercial sectors, including the rapidly expanding area of protein therapeutics. <br/><br/>A two-pronged approach is used to better affect macromolecule separations using the C-CP fiber phases. The first area focuses on the novel implementation of the fibers as the stationary phases for dimension two of comprehensive two-dimensional liquid chromatographic separations. C-CP phases of various surface chemistries are evaluated in terms of the cycling times required to affect high quality separations of temporal "cuts" obtained from the first dimension. The second area focuses on modification of surface chemistries to affect high levels of selectivity. There are four classes of reactions: further use of lipid tethered ligands as a general reaction methodology to modify hydrophobic surfaces, high density amination of polyester base fibers, microwave energy to affect covalent coupling of ligands to nylon 6 C-CP materials, and finally the adsorption of macromolecule ligands on polypropylene surface for class-specific separation. These chemistries are used to develop stand-alone columns (on either the analytical or preparative scales) as well as columns for use as dimension two in multidimensional applications.
Modern processing of signals is almost always performed on the digital (discretized) version of the original signals, which is obtained by sampling the signals on a discrete set. One of the fundamental issues when converting an analog (continuous) signal to a digital (discrete) one is the following question: Can the original signals be recovered from the samples, and if so, how accurately? The answer, of course, depends heavily on the nature of the signals that are being processed. For example, signals that are more complex (oscillatory) in nature require more samples for accurate reconstruction. The precise mathematical relationship between the rate of oscillation and the required rate of sampling is surprisingly delicate, especially when the samples are non-uniform. This project is centered on the problem of understanding precisely this relationship, including several other mathematical questions that arise naturally from it. <br/><br/>Analytic function spaces have always played an important role in the mathematical theory of signal processing. One natural class of such spaces that is particularly useful when studying non-uniform sampling is the class of de Branges spaces. Introduced in the sixties, the theory of de Branges spaces encompassed a great deal of mathematical analysis knowledge at that time, and it continues to play an important role in modern mathematics, providing a setting for the interplay of various areas of mathematics, including Fourier analysis, spectral theory, operator theory, random matrix theory, analytic number theory, and mathematical physics. The main research objective of this project is to conduct a deeper analysis of de Branges function spaces, and use the resulting findings to attack and resolve several long-standing open problems. Many of these problems are much more general in nature and go far beyond the setting of de Branges spaces. The reason that de Branges spaces serve as a model rests on the fact that this class of spaces already exhibits most of the key difficulties confronting signal processors. Another important goal of this project is to develop a theory that will unify the theory of classical function spaces, and use this unification as a guideline for developing new methods for resolving the remaining open questions about these spaces.
There is an established need for highly qualified K-12 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) teachers, especially in high-need schools. It can be particularly challenging to recruit middle grades STEM teachers who have a strong content background in a specific STEM discipline. With funding from the National Science Foundation's Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program, the Preparing and Mentoring Middle Grades STEM Educators to Teach in High-Need South Carolina School Districts project is recruiting career changers from STEM fields and preparing them to become middle grades STEM teachers. The project is funding 40 scholarships over 4 years. In this project, Clemson University is collaborating with Greenville County Public Schools. Recipients will be enrolled in a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program that includes initial teacher certification for Middle Grades Education. The Noyce Scholarships will expand opportunities for STEM career changers to complete the MAT program and hence also expand the number of middle grades STEM teachers in the state.<br/><br/>The project will investigate the impact of the Noyce Program by analyzing 16 years of data from the Clemson MAT in middle grades program, which has enrolled more than 250 individuals, 86 of whom have been or will be Noyce Scholars. Research questions include: (1) How do teacher efficacy and other personal characteristic affect teacher retention and success among STEM instructors? (2) Do STEM career changers possess different characteristics than STEM majors who come directly out of undergraduate majors? (3) How does the performance of the students of Noyce Scholars and non-Noyce-Scholars compare? (4) How does the performance of the students of STEM majors and non-STEM majors compare? The goal is to identify characteristics of successful STEM teachers and to determine the extent to which a STEM background strengthens the impact of a middle grades teacher.
Rising rates of chronic conditions such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases are driving the demand for biologic drugs used to treat them. Currently, there are over 130 biologics approved for use in the US, with a market exceeding $140 B. Over 900 new biologics targeting more than 100 diseases are under development. New product commercialization will require significant expansions in production capacity and improvements in manufacturing flexibility to meet future market demands. In addition, the emergence of biosimilars, biobetters, and increasing competition will apply economic pressure on biomanufacturers to innovate new drug manufacturing technologies to lower production costs. Innovations are especially needed in downstream drug purification, which often limits the production capacity and contributes 30-40% of the overall manufacturing cost. This I-Corps team is developing a platform (PuriTM membranes) to dramatically enhance production capacity and flexibility in the downstream purification of biologic drugs. The disposable nature of the PuriTM platform is expected to reduce biomanufacturing production costs significantly.<br/><br/>This project is expected to accelerate market entry of PuriTM membrane innovations by developing the entrepreneurial knowledge and skills of the I-Corps team that are needed to translate the innovation from the academic laboratory to the industry sector. PuriTM adsorptive membrane modules are single-use membrane products that purify biologic drugs. They are characterized by high drug binding capacity, high selectivity, and high tolerance to feedstock conditions. Laboratory research has demonstrated that the firstgeneration PuriTM membranes specifically address all of the known customer pain points. Through customer interviews and use of the business model canvas, the team will test the proposition that these single-use adsorptive membrane innovations will derive commercial value from their abilities to increase the production capacity and flexibility of biomanufacturing facilities and lower the manufacturing cost of biologics. Identification of early acceptance customers also is expected as an outcome of the project. The team will develop alpha prototypes and work closely with potential customers on external validation of these prototypes. Completion of external validation will provide additional opportunities for the team to understand customer needs and test assumptions about the product utility and design. It also will provide vital data to attract external investors and new customers. A validated business plan and minimum viable products are<br/>expected at the end of the I-Corps program.
Phase I I/UCRC Clemson University Site: Advanced Mammalian Biomanufacturing Innovation Center (AMBIC).<br/><br/>Johns Hopkins University, University of Delaware, Clemson University, and University of Massachusetts-Lowell have jointly established a multi-university, Phase I I/UCRC entitled the Advanced Mammalian Biomanufacturing Innovation Center (AMBIC). Over the past two decades, the biopharmaceutical industry has emerged as one of the major manufacturing industries and engines of growth in the US economy. Biomanufacturing represents nearly 2% of the total US GDP and its fraction is expanding. Much of biomanufacturing involves the use of cells to make medicines. Examples of these types of medicines include cancer medicines and vaccines. A key element in developing these medicines is the need to establish complex manufacturing processes. AMBIC will implement engineering innovations to enhance the capabilities of our nation to manufacture these important life-extending and life-saving medicines. Such improvements will improve the competitiveness of US biomanufacturing in coming decades leading to more economic investment by these companies and more jobs for American workers. <br/>The mission of AMBIC is to develop enabling technologies, knowledge, design tools and methods that apply and integrate high-throughput and genome-based technologies to fast-track advanced biomanufacturing processes. AMBIC is the first I/UCRC dedicated to mammalian cell culture upstream development focusing on Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, the principal biopharmaceutical production host of industry. AMBIC will bring together leading academic and industrial biotechnologists focused on mammalian cell culture manufacturing at a pre-competitive research level to address the complex problems in biopharmaceutical manufacturing. This multi-university center will allow AMBIC to leverage the skills and the expertise of many faculty members across the Sites. AMBIC will be a critical catalyst towards maintaining national excellence in biopharmaceutical production by conducting research in: 1) Understanding Industrially-Relevant Biology (e.g., all -omics, bioinformatics, process and product quality, etc.); 2) Process Monitoring & Control (e.g., analytics, instrumentation, data mining and modeling); 3) Consensus and Standardization Issues (e.g., standards, simple fingerprints, raw material issues, regulatory issues, forensic bioprocessing, clonality). Through systems-level biology analysis, novel cell line development, bioreactor optimization, and advanced analytics, AMBIC will provide transformative solutions that can lower biomanufacturing costs and improve bioprocessing efficiency. Most importantly, these advances may ultimately serve to make more biopharmaceuticals available to patients that need them and lower overall health care costs for consumers. In addition, AMBIC will establish and maintain a pipeline of educated and motivated students at multiple levels for careers in biopharmaceutical manufacturing and development. Collaborations with corporate partners will enable the students to work on the most pressing problems that the industry faces. Furthermore, this center will serve to engage and excite students from under-represented minority populations to pursue a career in life sciences, engineering, or related STEM fields. An important part of the AMBIC activities and a committed goal of the PI's is to increase the participation of women and under-represented minorities in STEM disciplines by energizing students from all backgrounds about the exciting opportunities to help others through STEM careers in biotechnology and biomedicine.
This project will use an 8-year data set from the Poker Flat Incoherent Scatter Radar (PFISR) to investigate the climatology and variability of high-latitude lower thermospheric winds. The analysis will address questions of the relative contribution of energy and momentum transfer from different sources. A long-term database of wind profiles will be developed and made available to the community to be used for testing of complex models.<br/><br/>This study will advance the understanding of ion-neutral coupling and energy, mass and momentum transfer between the magnetosphere, thermosphere, and atmosphere, and will investigate auroral effects on lower thermospheric winds. Case studies will be used to examine events of strong atmospheric or auroral forcing. The long-term data base will provide information about trends in lower thermospheric winds and which forcing mechanisms are most responsible for long-term variability.
This National Science Foundation Research Traineeship (NRT) award to Clemson University will respond to the urgent need for professionals capable of crossing disciplinary boundaries to assess technological and societal risks, to communicate those risks to decision makers, and to devise strategies that improve community resilience to natural or man-made disasters. The last five decades have seen a sharp increase in the frequency and impact of natural hazards and a significantly higher risk of man-made disasters, particularly since 9/11. Predicting and mitigating such extreme events is difficult due to interactions among infrastructure systems with complex, poorly understood feedback loops. Society needs professionals who can conceptualize complex systems where physical, cyber, and human infrastructure systems converge and who can transform this conceptual understanding into reliable computational models that are validated by data. Moreover, these professionals must be equipped with skills to effectively communicate with their peers in other disciplines and with decision and policy makers to ensure cohesion between science and policy. This NRT award will address these challenges through curriculum development, transformation in graduate education, and research with societal impact. The project anticipates training fifty-two (52) MS and PhD students, including twenty-six (26) funded trainees, from a variety of science and engineering disciplines related to model- and data-enabled infrastructure resiliency. <br/><br/>This project envisions a new paradigm of graduate education conducive to training STEM professionals who are transdisciplinary system thinkers capable of crossing disciplinary boundaries and working in a dynamic network of continuously learning individuals and evolving knowledge. It represents a transformation in graduate education through the creation of collaborative research communities with strong peer-learning aspects, resulting in a local scientific community that enables students to learn the ?business? of science (networking, collaboration, communication, etc.). The NRT award will promote an agile, adaptive curriculum structure responsive to the changing needs of students through the development of a modular, personalized training program. It will enhance students? ability to apply academic research to complex, real-world problems with an awareness of societal impacts via a uniquely integrated research, training, and outreach program that studies infrastructure vulnerabilities that disproportionately affect low-income regions. Developed within a logic framework and with a thorough, research-driven evaluation plan, this training program will be reproducible on a larger scale. Student and faculty teams will conduct research in three core model engineering and data science areas: (1) integrating models to models, (2) incorporating data into models, and (3) communicating model predictions to decision makers. Their work in each of these areas will allow them to highlight key model/data science issues, understand how these issues translate to societal impacts caused by vulnerabilities in infrastructure systems, and develop solutions to mitigate damage caused by potential infrastructure vulnerabilities. The research on infrastructure resiliency will result in new approaches for modeling and analyzing coupled systems, enabling scientists and decision makers to come together to better understand interdependent infrastructure systems and their uncertainties.<br/><br/>The NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) Program is designed to encourage the development and implementation of bold, new potentially transformative models for STEM graduate education training. The Traineeship Track is dedicated to effective training of STEM graduate students in high priority interdisciplinary research areas, through the comprehensive traineeship model that is innovative, evidence-based, and aligned with changing workforce and research needs.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating the discovery of novel microcantilever heaters to fill the need for highly sensitive and selective volatile organic compound (VOC) sensors with an ultra-low power requirement. These VOC sensors are important because of their strong impact on environmental protection and indoor air quality monitoring which has direct influence on human health and well-being. The project will result in the development of a commercially viable prototype of a novel VOC sensor packaged in the form of a miniaturized handheld device. This VOC sensor has unique features of high sensitivity and selective detection of VOCs individually and in mixtures, and operation at low heater temperature without catalyst coating. These features provide the advantages of faster and unique detection of VOCs in a complex environment, much lower power consumption, and higher reliability and operational lifetime, when compared to the leading competing pellistor and photo-ionization based sensors currently available in this market space. <br/><br/>This project addresses the following technology gap(s) as it translates from research discovery toward commercial application. The VOC sensor to be developed will address: (i) the inability of the current technologies to perform selective detection of analytes, (ii) higher operational power requirement due to high heater temperature, and low operational lifetime due to usage of a laser or catalyst coating. A combination of unique features of the proposed VOC sensor, including low heater temperature, lack of catalyst coating, and selective VOC detection utilizing their physical properties, enables it to address the aforementioned limitations of the current technology. In addition, the personnel involved in this project, at both graduate and undergraduate levels, will receive entrepreneurship and technology translation experiences through participation in the project activities directly related to commercialization and mentorship from the industrial partner. <br/><br/>The project engages Tangidyne Inc. to guide the commercialization aspects of the sensor developed, and provide unique business mentorship to the graduate and undergraduate students involved in this technology translation effort from research discovery toward commercial reality.
This collaborative, EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), research project focuses on a design concept that may allow energy harvesting from waste heat, by converting the heat to electrical energy. The vision of the research is to use heat pipes, in particular so-called oscillating heat pipes (OHP). Inside an OHP, a series of serpentine-arranged mini-channels exist that are partially filled with a working fluid. There has been limited, if any, research in the area of energy-harvesting through the use of heat pipes. Heat pipes provide salient mechanical work within their structure due to vapor expansion and fluid flow. This research aims to harvest this internal work by augmenting the OHP heat transfer to the environment through utilization of a specially designed energy harvesting system that enables generation of electrical work through a piezoelectric effect, namely thermally-actuated piezoelectric transduction (TPT). This research project will contribute to better understanding of the physics and application of TPT, improved understanding of piezoelectric-materials, energy-harvesting using OHPs. This research will bridge research perspectives and approaches from the thermal/fluid sciences and power generation. Potential applications for these devices are numerous, especially for waste heat recovery and/or renewable power generation. The technology and basic science derived can result in: off-grid power generation for communications devices (e.g., third world country cellular phone charging and defense applications), more energy-efficient electronics packaging schemes, and new opportunities for high heat flux thermal energy harvesting. Geothermal temperature gradients may also be exploited for constant, renewable power generation via the implementation of ultra-large OHP/TPT systems or OHP/TPTs aligned in-series. This collaborative project will support both graduate and undergraduate researchers that have been traditionally underrepresented.<br/><br/><br/>The OHP has yet to be investigated as a means to destabilize natural temperature gradients for the purpose of establishing a Stirling cycle, nor has it been investigated as a means for power generation. A unique opportunity for using TPT is atop a flat-plate oscillating heat pipe (OHP) - a device that effectively transfers heat via cyclic phase change of an internal working fluid - giving rise to an oscillatory temperature field on its surface. The research will investigate the use of both TPT and OHPs for combined 1) power generation/energy harvesting, and 2) highly-efficient heat transfer. To accomplish this, a unique energy harvester, which is directly attached to the OHP surface, will be designed and will consist of a micro-sized heat sink, encapsulated gas and suspended, spring-resisted piezoelectric material. An aggressive schedule of well-designed experiments is planned to determine how the effectiveness of TPT depends on OHP and energy harvester design. A highly-coupled set of governing equations will be defined and solved by joining common OHP thermo/fluidic models with the constitutive equations of piezoelectric materials. Numerical multi-physics software will be utilized to simulate the convective air flow in the energy harvester and electricity generation inherent to the proposed method for OHP-integrated TPT. The mechanical response and fatigue of various piezoelectric materials for TPT will be evaluated. Thermoelectricity generation via the proposed OHP/TPT is a unique and potentially transformative approach to enthalpy-to-electricity conversion as the OHP/TPT can efficiently transfer heat from one location to another (with ultra-high thermal conductivity) while also generating power.
Data provenance is the ability to track data history including things such as where the data resided, who handled it, and what systems stored, forwarded and processed it. This research builds on the architecture of the digital currency Bitcoin. It develops distributed data ledgers - similar to bookkeeping ledgers - that maintain data history so it can't be manipulated by hackers trying to hide their activities. Data consistency guarantees that everyone gets the right answers about where, who, and what regardless of which ledger is read. This software advances the security of computing systems by making data accountable, especially for online commerce and big data ("the cloud''). It secures forensic information taken from compromised computers for further analysis. It validates whether privacy requirements are being met for medical records. The key outcome is a software prototype that implements the complete system and illustrates the ability to store, maintain, and update provenance information for real data. <br/><br/>A data provenance framework will be designed, prototyped, evaluated and then delivered as an Application Programmer Interface, software library, and distributed service. This work will produce a reusable distributed service architecture achieving scalability by using distributed services that maintain ledger information. The system leverages Bitcoin cryptocurrency by building on Bitcoin's block-chain architecture to maintain provenance metadata securely. It leverages existing tools for provenance data exploration and visualization. Digital signatures from both the server/system as well as the user creates dual information about possession, while distributed ledgers remove control and maintenance of metadata from the user who creates it. The prototype enables research into long-term provenance creation, maintenance, and utilization for workflows in the area of cybersecurity as well studies of how to integrate and secure provenance into existing file systems and network services. Opt-in and passive (involuntary) provenance systems will be enabled using the API, library, and distributed ledgers prototyped, enabling data provenance for systems where needed, notably high assurance cloud computing and scientific workflow systems. The tool can be used to enable reproducibility of published results from archived data and artifacts.
The goal of this project is to develop improved models and numerical methods that advance the state of the art for incompressible fluid flow simulation. The key ideas are the better enforcement of geometric and physical laws in the computer algorithms, building a solid mathematical framework for the models and methods developed, and the devising of algorithms that will allow for efficient implementation on supercomputers. Although the simulation of fluid flow is a critical subtask in a wide spectrum of engineering applications, current tools and techniques are often unreliable and it is not uncommon for state of the art methods to take weeks or months (or possibly never finish with an accurate solution), even with thousands of processors, to perform simulations of flows around a car, through a nuclear reactor, or around part of an airplane. The project aims to develop mathematical prediction models and numerical methods that will provide more accurate solutions in a more efficient manner than state-of-the-art methods.<br/><br/>The PIs will construct efficient methods for incompressible flow simulation by constructing models and methods that better adhere to geometric structure and physical conservation laws than modern methods. The key components are to i) construct novel methods that are efficient and can correctly account for vorticity dynamics, and energy, helicity, and mass conservation -- this will require development of efficient boundary conditions and significant analysis to build a solid mathematical framework; ii) develop more efficient algebraic solvers for these methods that can be used on thousands of processors; iii) large scale testing on benchmark problems as well as on application problems with collaborators. Broader impacts include i) developing efficient methods for simulating high speed incompressible flows, which will improve the design process for a wide spectrum of applications in environmental engineering, in cardiovascular simulations, and in atmosphere and ocean sciences; ii) training graduate and undergraduate students through research involvement; and iii) developing large scale, parallel codes to be made publicly available as part of the deal.II library.
