Every day, we are confronted with an abundance of decisions that require us to choose from a seemingly endless number of choice options. Recommender systems are supposed to help us deal with this formidable task, but some scholars claim that these systems instead put us inside a "Filter Bubble" that severely limits our perspectives. This project investigates a new direction for recommender systems research with the main goal of supporting users in developing, exploring, and understanding their unique personal preferences. The project will develop a new type of recommender system: a Recommender System for Self-Actualization (RSSA), which will support decisions that have a resounding influence on our life (e.g., choosing an education or a job) where we do not want to just take the easiest option, but rather to develop ourselves into unique individuals with a strong sense of determination that we have chosen the right path.<br/><br/>In contrast to most existing recommender systems research, this project carefully considers the psychology of consumer choice processes and develops new types of recommendations to support these processes in novel ways (the RSSA features). The PI's team will develop a new recommender system outfitted with the capability to display a traditional Top-N recommendation list, plus each new RSSA feature. The team will then test the benefit of each RSSA feature against traditional Top-N recommendations in an online user experiment. This benefit will be measured by participants' subjective evaluation of the system and their usage behavior logs.
Data overload, especially in the visual channel, and associated breakdowns in monitoring already represent a major challenge in data-rich environments. One promising means of overcoming data overload is through the introduction of multimodal displays which distribute information across various sensory channels (including vision, audition, and touch). In recent years, touch has received more attention as a means to offload the overburdened visual and auditory channels, but much remains to be discovered in this modality. Tactons, or tactile icons/displays, are structured, abstract messages that can be used to communicate information in the absence of vision. However, the effectiveness of tactons may be compromised if their design does not take into account that complex systems depend on the coordinated activities of a team. The PI's goal in this project is to establish a research program that will explore adaptive collaborative tactons as a means to support situational awareness, that is the ability of a team to perceive and comprehend information from the environment and predict future events in real time. Project outcomes will contribute to a deeper understanding of perception and attention between and across sensory channels for individuals and teams, and to how multimodal interfaces can support teamwork in data-rich domains.<br/><br/>The work will integrate three disparate topics within human factors: multimodal interfaces, situational awareness, and adaptive systems. The PI will create methods to design tactons that take into account both context and the types of information needed by a team, by leveraging the multimodal aspects to develop quantitative and qualitative models and algorithms using physiological measures (in particular, eye tracking data). These in turn will inform the functionality of adaptive tactons that support collaboration by adjusting the presentation of information in response to various sensed parameters and conditions.
The "Carolina Dynamics Symposium" is a continued two day weekend conference, which will take place in April 2016 at Furman University Greenville, SC and in April 2017 at Agnes Scott College, Atlanta, GA. In April 2018 it will be hosted either by the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, the University of Charleston, or by Wake Forest University.<br/><br/>The Carolina Dynamics Symposium is a two day conference that has been taking place for thirteen years at different colleges and universities in the Carolinas and Georgia. In addition to the traditional lively interaction among mathematicians from the Southeast there have been hour talks by invited leaders in the field from outside the region. The Carolina Dynamics Symposia feature one plenary speaker who will deliver a public lecture on the Friday before the conference begins, as well as about three hour-long plenary speakers during the conference weekend. All meetings will also have twenty to thirty minute contributed talks and invited talks from Southeastern participants. Typically a significant number of talks are given by (graduate) students and young researchers. The conferences have led to successful research projects and publications in the past. We are continuing a very successful model with participants of diverse levels and backgrounds, among those a particularly large number of female participants, speakers and organizers.<br/><br/>For further information on the Symposium, we maintain a webpage: http://www.devio.us/~ppunosevac/cdynsys/pmwiki.php?n=Main.Announcements.
The 2016 Graduate Student Combinatorics Conference will be held April 1-3, 2016 at Clemson University, Clemson, SC. The main purpose of this conference is to bring together graduate students in combinatorics in order to educate participants about the many areas of combinatorics, provide a venue for sharing current research topics and open questions, have participants meet fellow graduate students from across the country, and provide an opportunity for students to collaborate on current research problems. The conference will feature two plenary one-hour speakers and a number of twenty-minutes contributed talks by graduate students. This will be the 12th annual conference in this series which was started in 2005 at the University of Minnesota. The conference will be publicized via email and information will be posted on a conference website. <br/><br/>The conference provides an opportunity for graduate students to learn about the current research in all areas of combinatorics, including algebraic and enumerative combinatorics, graph theory, design theory, and coding theory. The conference is designed specifically for graduate students and it is organized essentially by the graduate students themselves. Combinatorics faculty from Clemson and the invited speakers will act as mentors for the graduate students throughout the process. The conference promotes recent advances in research and exposition of students' research in a supportive environment.
Modern processing of signals is almost always performed on the digital (discretized) version of the original signals, which is obtained by sampling the signals on a discrete set. One of the fundamental issues when converting an analog (continuous) signal to a digital (discrete) one is the following question: Can the original signals be recovered from the samples, and if so, how accurately? The answer, of course, depends heavily on the nature of the signals that are being processed. For example, signals that are more complex (oscillatory) in nature require more samples for accurate reconstruction. The precise mathematical relationship between the rate of oscillation and the required rate of sampling is surprisingly delicate, especially when the samples are non-uniform. This project is centered on the problem of understanding precisely this relationship, including several other mathematical questions that arise naturally from it. <br/><br/>Analytic function spaces have always played an important role in the mathematical theory of signal processing. One natural class of such spaces that is particularly useful when studying non-uniform sampling is the class of de Branges spaces. Introduced in the sixties, the theory of de Branges spaces encompassed a great deal of mathematical analysis knowledge at that time, and it continues to play an important role in modern mathematics, providing a setting for the interplay of various areas of mathematics, including Fourier analysis, spectral theory, operator theory, random matrix theory, analytic number theory, and mathematical physics. The main research objective of this project is to conduct a deeper analysis of de Branges function spaces, and use the resulting findings to attack and resolve several long-standing open problems. Many of these problems are much more general in nature and go far beyond the setting of de Branges spaces. The reason that de Branges spaces serve as a model rests on the fact that this class of spaces already exhibits most of the key difficulties confronting signal processors. Another important goal of this project is to develop a theory that will unify the theory of classical function spaces, and use this unification as a guideline for developing new methods for resolving the remaining open questions about these spaces.
This research will investigate how salamanders respond to climate change by acclimating to new environments. The capacity to adjust physiological traits may be especially important for amphibians because they are one of the most threatened groups of animals on the planet. Amphibians use both terrestrial and aquatic environments and thus are particularly sensitive to environmental degradation due to climate change. Unfortunately, despite increased interest in response to climate change, we know very little about how salamander populations will fare under changing conditions. The goal of this project is to identify genes that may contribute to a salamander's ability to accommodate environmental change. This study will help determine if salamander populations can evolve an increased capacity to deal with variable environments. The study will also provide underrepresented college students the opportunity to develop independent, inquiry-based projects in amphibian biology. <br/><br/>In response to climate change, organisms must adapt, acclimate, migrate, or potentially face extinction. Adaptation is a heritable evolutionary change of a population over generations. Acclimation is change that happens within the lifetime of an individual animal. If individuals vary in their capacity to acclimate, increased acclimation ability might itself evolve due to natural selection creating an adaptation of acclimation. The study will determine the capacity of individual Southern grey-cheeked salamander (Plethodon metcalfi) to adjust rates of water loss in response to temperature and humidity. Using a time-course experimental design, the study will identify differences in gene expression between individuals that acclimate and individuals that do not acclimate and identify the genes that the salamanders use to reduce rates of water loss as temperature changes. Upon identifying these genes, the study will link the activity of those genes to specific physiological responses that alter water loss. The result will be an increased understanding of the genetic basis of acclimation and adaptation to environmental cues.
The number of older persons in the United States is substantially increasing, as is the cost of health care. Accompanying these trends is a growing scarcity of caretakers, care deliverers, and care facilities to attend to our growing elder population. Technology supporting health for older adults tends to be limited to computerized monitoring systems and, potentially someday in the future, as assistive 'humanoid' robots that look and function something like us. Our homes and their many furnishings, meanwhile, remain conventional, low-tech, and maladaptive to life changes. To promote independent living, this research team from architectural design, robotics, and human factors explores how our homes can be outfitted with furnishings of advanced functionality. This project, home+, is a collection of robotic home furnishings that fits easily into any conventional home to increase the quality of life of individuals with impaired mobility and cognitive functioning by enabling routine domestic activities. This research project will: (1) establish the needs and wants of older people wishing to age in place, identifying those aspects of the home+ concept that best promise to support independent living; (2) design robotic furnishings, accordingly; (3) test these furnishing to determine how well they interact with each other and with the people that use them; (4) define the choreography by which these furnishings and their users interact; and (5) evaluate how well home+ supports typical users performing ten routine home tasks that define a capacity for independent living. The team will gain insights not only from the targeted populations and healthcare professions who may benefit most by home+, but also from a wider audience. This outreach aspect of the home+ project will culminate in a workshop that seeks marketplace and practice support for advancing the prototype. <br/><br/>The majority of seniors want to age in place in their homes. To realize this goal, this project will: (1) conduct a needs assessment of older adults; (2) iteratively co-design and usability test robotic furnishings that recognize, communicate with, and partly remember each other in interaction with human users (interoperability); (3) define the pattern language of interactions for this cyber-human system; and (4) evaluate the efficacy of home+ by comparing performance on 10 routine home tasks defining a capacity for independent living for individuals with and without home+. Drawing on research and formalism in distributed robotics, the team will focus efforts on implementing and evaluating three software environments for home+: (1) a centralized architecture, with all sensory information, processing, command and control at a single source; (2) a distributed architecture, with localized sensing, processing, and control, and minimal interactions between elements; and (3), a combination of the first two, with a dedicated interface layer between the high-level strategies of (1) and the reactive behaviors of (2). Intellectually, this approach can be viewed as establishing a bridge between traditional robotics and smart, robotically enhanced, physical built environments.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating the discovery of novel microcantilever heaters to fill the need for highly sensitive and selective volatile organic compound (VOC) sensors with an ultra-low power requirement. These VOC sensors are important because of their strong impact on environmental protection and indoor air quality monitoring which has direct influence on human health and well-being. The project will result in the development of a commercially viable prototype of a novel VOC sensor packaged in the form of a miniaturized handheld device. This VOC sensor has unique features of high sensitivity and selective detection of VOCs individually and in mixtures, and operation at low heater temperature without catalyst coating. These features provide the advantages of faster and unique detection of VOCs in a complex environment, much lower power consumption, and higher reliability and operational lifetime, when compared to the leading competing pellistor and photo-ionization based sensors currently available in this market space. <br/><br/>This project addresses the following technology gap(s) as it translates from research discovery toward commercial application. The VOC sensor to be developed will address: (i) the inability of the current technologies to perform selective detection of analytes, (ii) higher operational power requirement due to high heater temperature, and low operational lifetime due to usage of a laser or catalyst coating. A combination of unique features of the proposed VOC sensor, including low heater temperature, lack of catalyst coating, and selective VOC detection utilizing their physical properties, enables it to address the aforementioned limitations of the current technology. In addition, the personnel involved in this project, at both graduate and undergraduate levels, will receive entrepreneurship and technology translation experiences through participation in the project activities directly related to commercialization and mentorship from the industrial partner. <br/><br/>The project engages Tangidyne Inc. to guide the commercialization aspects of the sensor developed, and provide unique business mentorship to the graduate and undergraduate students involved in this technology translation effort from research discovery toward commercial reality.
1602451<br/>Mishra<br/><br/>South Carolina has recently experienced a severe drought followed by an extreme flooding that was initiated October 1, 2015. The combination of the extensive drought from the previous months followed by the historical extreme rainfall event will likely change the water quality dynamics in rural, agricultural, and urban watersheds. Specifically, the deficit in precipitation has likely led to the deposition of pollutants within the soil. During the extreme rain event and subsequent flooding, these pollutants have been discharged into waterways, with the result that stagnant water in urban areas may lead to serious issues of water quality. The drought-flood regime may affect water quality differently based on rural, agriculture and urban landscape patterns of the state. The combination of extreme events is expected only to increase, resulting in the need to advance understanding as to how these extreme rain and flooding events affect the dynamics of water quality. <br/><br/>The objective of this RAPID project is to collect perishable water quality related data that will lead to enhanced understanding, particularly regarding how these ever more frequent combination of droughts and floods extremes affect water quality in different types of landscape. Given the need for fast acquisition of environmental related data (e.g. the quality of urban stagnant flood waters are data that are perishable) the investigators will deploy rapid response teams to document quickly these real-time consequences of extreme floods. The scope of activities includes: a) collect water quality samples from rural and agriculture dominated watersheds following this recent historical flood event, to establish relationship between climate extremes and water quality parameters; b) collect data on stagnant urban flood waters, which may contain oil, chemicals and sewage that are a public health concern, for laboratory analysis; and c) perform sensitivity analysis to identify the water quality parameters that are mostly affected during this rapid transition from drought to flood. The combined impact of drought and flood extremes on water quality is currently not well understood. This research will bring new knowledge on the effects of drought-flood cycle on water quality at urban, rural and agricultural watersheds. The perishable data can be used to improve water quality model calibration based on a combination of extreme events scenarios. This project is anticipated to advance current knowledge on drought-flood impacts on environmental sustainability. Research findings can be applied to urban watersheds in southern and also south-western states (e.g., Texas and California) of the U.S. because of frequent combination of drought and flood events.
PI: Koley, Goutam <br/>Proposal Number: 1606882 <br/><br/>The goal is to develop bio-implantable sensors utilizing the unique material properties of graphene and boron nitride, which would offer much higher sensitivity for detecting concentration of various ions in blood and tissue in real time, enabling prediction of the onset of disease states before their clinical manifestation. The project activities would integrate research with education and training of high school, undergraduate and graduate students, with significant minority participation. <br/><br/>The overall goal of the proposed research is to develop novel graphene-based flexible ion-sensitive field effect transistor (ISFET) sensors for the measurement of K+, Ca2+ and Na+ ion concentrations and correlated ion fluxes in cardiomyocytes and glial cells, with the overall objective of developing a new approach for assaying cell membrane ion transport in primary cell culture. The detection of the aforementioned ions is clinically significant as they serve as important bio-markers for onset of myocardial ischemia and epilepsy. The proposed graphene ISFET sensor array will enable critical understanding of K+, Ca2+ and Na+ membrane transport in glial cells and cardiomyocytes. The approach of ISFET development utilizing the novel properties of boron nitride and graphene addresses several critical issues including: (i) the complicacy, low throughput and cell invasiveness issues of patch clamp and microelectrode array based techniques, and (ii) the low sensitivity and degradation of commercially available Si-based ISFETs. The experimental plan includes growing cells directly on graphene and performing continuous, real-time and label-free measurements of ion fluxes in cardiomyocytes and glial cells. The measurements acquired are expected to provide electrophysiological properties of primary cells in culture, especially regulatory and drug-induced changes in their electrical properties. Successful completion would result in the development of useful ISFET sensors for in vivo detection of the onset of myocardial ischemia and epilepsy. As part of the educational and outreach activities, the PIs would each involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year focusing strongly on recruiting minority students. The PIs would also integrate research results in a graduate course, and disseminate them through conference participation as well as research websites.<br/>&#8195;
This project is funded by the Chemical Measurement and Imaging Program of the Chemistry Division at the National Science Foundation. Professor R. Kenneth Marcus and collaborators at Clemson University are developing and characterizing capillary-channeled polymer (C-CP) fibers as stationary phases for rapid processing of synthetic and large biological molecules. These stationary phases are amenable to a wide range of instrumentation formats and offer advantages for the separation of mixtures. The goal of the studies is to produce efficient and selective separations in an economical manner. This work is interdisciplinary, involving collaborative efforts between research groups in chemistry, bioengineering, mathematical and materials sciences. The project includes investigators affiliated with the Clemson University Center for Advanced Engineering of Fibers and Films. There are also collaborations with federal laboratories. If successful, the project may result in new commercial ventures in the textile and biopharmaceutical industries in South Carolina. Enhanced capabilities for large molecule separations have implications across many commercial sectors, including the rapidly expanding area of protein therapeutics. <br/><br/>A two-pronged approach is used to better affect macromolecule separations using the C-CP fiber phases. The first area focuses on the novel implementation of the fibers as the stationary phases for dimension two of comprehensive two-dimensional liquid chromatographic separations. C-CP phases of various surface chemistries are evaluated in terms of the cycling times required to affect high quality separations of temporal "cuts" obtained from the first dimension. The second area focuses on modification of surface chemistries to affect high levels of selectivity. There are four classes of reactions: further use of lipid tethered ligands as a general reaction methodology to modify hydrophobic surfaces, high density amination of polyester base fibers, microwave energy to affect covalent coupling of ligands to nylon 6 C-CP materials, and finally the adsorption of macromolecule ligands on polypropylene surface for class-specific separation. These chemistries are used to develop stand-alone columns (on either the analytical or preparative scales) as well as columns for use as dimension two in multidimensional applications.
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY:<br/><br/>The design of new materials is one critical aspect of engineering new platforms that will augment the energy security of the nation, impact health, and enhance economic competitiveness. Driving innovation in technologies such as clean energy generation and storage and numerous biomedical technologies requires new materials that can serve in different capacities simultaneously. One promising class of materials consists of very large molecules (polymers) able to transport ions and electrons while retaining their mechanical integrity, often under extreme conditions of high temperatures, solvents, and external stresses that may affect their performance. The ability of these materials to play multiple roles is attained by tailoring molecular segments with different chemical functionalities into one large molecule, including blocks for transporting ions and electrons and blocks to provide mechanical stability. Controlling the way these segments organize and perform electrically as they are integrated into devices is key to the design of new effective platforms. In this project, using large-scale computational studies coupled with state-of-the-art neutron measurements, the effects of the structure of these polymers will be correlated with their dynamics as they are exposed to high temperatures and solvents. The projected results will provide the understanding that will enhance the ability to design well-controlled multi-functional polymers, tailored with desired properties for specific applications. The project is closely integrated with interdisciplinary education and training of graduate and undergraduate students and high-school outreach.<br/><br/><br/>TECHNICAL SUMMARY:<br/><br/>Polymers that consist of ionizable blocks (ionomers, or polyelectrolytes) tethered to additional segments with well defined functionalities, constitute promising media for a large number of applications from clean energy and storage to sensors and drug delivery vehicles. The role of the ionic groups is two-fold: they form physical crosslinks while facilitating transport of ions and polar guest molecules. As these two functions often require dynamics of opposing nature, the additional blocks affect the overall stability of such polymers. Here, using large-scale molecular dynamics simulations coupled with neutron scattering techniques, the correlation of polymer dynamics with ionic associations and their cohesiveness will be investigated on a series of model copolymers that consist of styrene sulfonate as the ionic block tethered to different non-ionic segments. Numerous studies have probed the structure of ion-containing polymers and polyelectrolytes, revealing a rich variety of morphologies and establishing a clear correlation between structure and transport. One key challenge that arises from these studies is the need to unfold the correlation between ionic associations and their impact on the mobility of the polymers. The relationship of the dynamics with the number, topology, and stability of the ionic associations impacts the polymer properties and in turn affects a large number of technologies. This research is set to resolve the effects of constraints formed by ionic associations on polymer dynamics. Advances in computational techniques coupled with new developments in neutron scattering will enable a new insight into the dynamics of polymers under the confinement of physical crosslinks.
The significance of the project is that it will enhance the logical reasoning ability of students, and thus improve the quality of the software they develop after graduation. To make this possible, the project will employ an integrated system of engaging interactive reasoning guides to help overcome individual and collective learning obstacles. These guides will facilitate incremental learning for students and incremental adoption for educators. The automation inherent in the guides will make them an ideal vehicle for impacting learning in personalized and online settings and for reaching a diverse audience.<br/><br/>The project goals include enabling students to reason correctly about code compositions on all valid inputs, pinpointing fine-grain learning obstacles using a logical reasoning approach aided by an automated verification engine, and tailoring the tutoring necessary to help students overcome those obstacles. The scope includes common code idioms from the introductory programming repertoire and more advanced component-based software engineering concepts such as contracts. The underlying verification engine makes it possible for the interactive guides to offer a class of learner activities and directed logical feedback not possible with standard IDEs (Interactive Development Environments) such as Eclipse. Research and evaluation will focus on how well the guides engage students and how learning is improved.
Youth environmental education (EE) programs often serve as gateway experiences in which diverse audiences engage in informal science learning. While there is evidence that these programs can have positive impacts on participants, little empirical research has been conducted to determine what makes one program more successful than another. To be able to conduct such research, this Exploratory Pathways study will (1) develop and statistically validate ways to measure meaningful outcomes for participants across a variety of programs and (2) test observational methods that will enable research that can determine which elements of program delivery most powerfully influence participant engagement and learning outcomes in different contexts. These efforts will include consultations with diverse subject matter experts from the National Park Service, nature centers, and academia; survey research with participants in afterschool and free-choice EE programs; and observations of EE programs designed to fine tune the measurement of program delivery elements and student engagement. Developing valid and reliable outcomes measures and observational protocols will enable a larger investigation that will specifically address the following research question: What program characteristics lead to the best learning outcomes for program participants in different contexts? This research will result in empirically tested guidelines that will enable educators to design and deliver more effective programs for a wide range of audiences in a wide range of contexts. It is funded by the Advancing Informal STEM Learning (AISL) program, which seeks to advance new approaches to, and evidence-based understanding of, the design and development of STEM learning in informal environments.<br/><br/>This effort will refine methods necessary to undertake an unprecedented study (and future AISL Research in Service to Practice proposal) to examine the linkages between pedagogical approaches, participant engagement, and learning outcomes in informal STEM-focused youth EE programs. The larger study will involve systematically observing a large number of programs to assess the use of different approaches and to link those approaches to engagement and learning outcomes through both observation and survey research. In this current study the team will develop and refine crosscutting outcome measures to ensure validity, reliability, and sensitivity by drawing upon the literature and consultation with key stakeholders to develop suites of indicators for subsequent psychometric testing and revision. They will also refine observational techniques for assessing pedagogical approaches through extensive testing of inter-rater reliability. Finally, techniques for measuring participant engagement, incorporating both observational techniques and retrospective participant surveys will be refined.<br/><br/>The work will be conducted by researchers at Clemson University and Virginia Tech, in partnership with the U.S. National Park Service, the North American Association for Environmental Education, and the American Association of Nature Center Administrators. This work represents the first step in a longer research process to determine the "best practices" most responsible for achieving outcomes in a wide range of contexts.
Seasonally flooded, freshwater cypress-tupelo wetlands are commonly found in coastal regions of the southeastern United States, from Texas to North Carolina. These wetlands are the main terrestrial source of natural organic matter (NOM) that causes the yellowish tea-colored water in coastal blackwater rivers such as Waccamaw River in South Carolina (SC). Importantly, the concentration of NOM is highly correlated with concentrations of total mercury and methylated mercury, mediating the bioavailability and transport of mercury in coastal ecosystems. On October 1-5, 2015, the interaction between a stalled extratropical cyclone (nor'easter) and hurricane Joaquin caused torrential rain and extensive flooding in a short period of time in the coast of SC, resulting in a large volume of NOM exported from the forested wetlands into the coastal blackwater rivers. Such large quantity of NOM exports on an unprecedented scale could potentially mobilize relatively stable and recalcitrant pools of mercury and carbon from the forested wetlands into the blackwater rivers. This highly interdisciplinary research will dramatically improve understanding of mercury and carbon biogeochemistry under extreme weather conditions and demonstrate the relationships within the context of ecosystems. This study represents a new and unique collaboration between four investigators with different specialties from three universities including two assistant professors respectively in a minority serving institution and an undergraduate institution. This study will also raise the awareness of the impacts of extreme weather events on low-lying coastal areas in the Southeastern United States. <br/><br/>Coastal wetlands are considered as important carbon and mercury sinks. However, extreme weather events under the changing climate could alter the equilibrium status, affecting the stability of carbon and mercury pools in the coastal ecosystems. The goal of this RAPID research is to study the influences of the extreme flooding on carbon and mercury cycles and associated biogeochemical processes in coastal wetlands and blackwater rivers. Specifically, the study will integrate field investigations, controlled field experiments, and hydrological computer modeling to examine carbon and mercury exports, sources, and temporal trends along the hydrograph of the extreme flooding event. The research team has been collecting water samples along the Waccamaw River since Oct 4, 2015, representing the rising limb of the hydrograph. Samples were analyzed for general water quality, dissolved organic carbon, ultraviolet absorbance, nutrients, cations, anions, total mercury, and methylated mercury in the filtered and unfiltered samples. To determine the carbon and mercury budget, a hydrological model will be used to estimate the total water discharge from this flooding event that went into Waccamaw River. The PIs will engage in a transformative research study to assess novel decomposition process routes of terrestrial organic matter in forested wetlands under the influence of extreme flooding event. The PIs contend that the novel method of using stable mercury isotope along the hydrograph of the flooding event, coupled with measurements of dissolved organic matter in water using ultraviolet/visible and fluorescence spectroscopy, will be useful for understanding the relationships between carbon and mercury in coastal blackwater rivers. Determining the temporal variation of carbon and mercury will be useful for developing a mechanistic and landscape-level understanding of how extreme flooding events affect the biogeochemical process of terrestrial organic matter in coastal ecosystems.
Mobile health (mHealth) technology promises to improve quality of life, improve individual and public health, and reduce healthcare costs. Although mHealth devices and applications are proliferating, challenges remain. With a focus on usability, manageability, interoperability, availability, security, and privacy, the Amulet project has worked to engineer the tools for, and lay the scientific foundation of, secure wearable mHealth by developing a general framework for body-area pervasive computing, centered around health-monitoring and health-management applications. The Amulet team has built a prototype computational jewelry platform: an electronic bracelet and a software framework that enables developers to create (and users to easily use) safe, secure, and efficient mHealth applications that fit seamlessly into everyday life. This accomplishment-based renewal extends this work?refining and extending the Amulet platform?s functionality, evaluating its performance and usability in larger-scale studies, and transitioning the technology into an open and extensible tool for the research and healthcare communities.<br/><br/>The investigators expect Amulet will be a platform for a wide range of mHealth applications, and this project evaluates this potential in a concrete setting in cooperation with the Center for Technology and Behavioral Health at Dartmouth College. This project explores use of the Amulet platform in new applications, using new wearable sensors and new kinds of user interactions. This exploration includes fielding Amulet prototypes to study stress and other behavioral health metrics, and refining the Amulet hardware and software in response to user feedback, in order to prepare the platform for a successful public release to the research community. The Amulet will open exciting new opportunities as it becomes available to both technology and health-science researchers as they explore the burgeoning field of wearable technology.
As the role of computing in scientific discovery continues to increase, campuses across the country are challenged with the task of providing effective facilitation for computing capabilities so that researchers can harness these capabilities in their investigations. Such facilitation requires novel organizational approaches to the way that both human and physical resources that constitute campus research computing capabilities are composed, structured, and operated. The mission of the Campus Research Computing (CaRC) Infrastructures Consortium is to provide a national forum for the exchange and dissemination of best practices, expertise and technologies, enabling the advancement of campus-based research computing activities. By bringing together a wide range of campuses and community stakeholders, the CaRC Consortium provides a novel, yet complementary, element of an evolving and expanding national cyberinfrastructure ecosystem. <br/><br/>Governed by a council according to the consortium bylaws, the CaRC Consortium acts as unique force in advancing the impact of computing on the productivity of faculty and students. As an organization that is driven by the campus perspective of research computing, the CaRC offers several key outcomes at a national scale including the sharing of knowledge, best practices, software and hardware technologies, expertise, workforce development, and professional development. This fills a void within the national research computing fabric; as more campuses recognize the value of investments in research computing capacity and also in facilitators and like-functioning positions, many of these campuses and their individual staff members are isolated in a new field of practice without the necessary supporting infrastructure from a practitioner community.
The goal of this TUES Type 2 project is to incorporate sustainability grand challenges and experiential learning into classrooms and throughout engineering programs, with the aim of attracting and retaining a talented and diverse set of students who are prepared to tackle the engineering challenges of a global economy. The project team is developing and implementing three stand-alone sustainability courses and 14 modules at five partner institutions (Arizona State University, Mesa Community College, University of Pittsburgh, Community College of Allegheny College, and Laney College) and evaluating the effectiveness of the modules and classes on student, faculty, and program performance. Specifically, this project (1) creates and (2) implements ready-to-use content for three new stand-alone sustainability courses and fourteen modules, (3) evaluates the effectiveness of each course and module based on student and faculty feedback and performance, (4) evaluates the different degrees of program-wide curricula change: the stand-alone course method and the module method, and (5) disseminates the courses, modules, and findings to other institutions.<br/><br/>The stand-alone courses (Life Cycle Assessment, Green Buildings, and Sustainability Topics) and sustainability modules employ experiential learning, which has been shown in educational research to enhance the quality of student learning, and build on the team's sustainability engineering educational expertise. Flexibility is built into the stand-alone course materials and modules to accommodate the resources of different faculty and facilitate the adoption of these courses across different universities. The team is developing engaging activities for students both within the classroom and in the real world and increasing faculty expertise by mentoring numerous faculty over the four-year project. Moreover, the project includes well-integrated activities to address research questions on the effectiveness of the stand-alone courses' and modules' methods for incorporating sustainability topics. Evaluation includes student-centered evaluation of learning outcomes for each module and course, evaluation of faculty and institutional outcomes for the two different methods of course integration, and evaluation of outcomes from the collaborative project. Results are used to create recommendations on how institutions can best integrate sustainability and systems thinking into engineering curricula and to advance the understanding of faculty and institutional barriers to integrating sustainability and experiential learning into curricula.<br/><br/>This project creates resources aimed at different engineering courses across the range of undergraduate levels; the program is reaching hundreds of undergraduates at two research universities and three community colleges. This project has the potential to facilitate integration of sustainability education into existing curricula by developing flexible curricular material and identifying and minimizing barriers to implementation of sustainability education and experiential learning. Faculty development workshops and mentoring activities are employed to facilitate dissemination and adoption of the developed courses and module.
Phase I I/UCRC Clemson University Site: Advanced Mammalian Biomanufacturing Innovation Center (AMBIC).<br/><br/>Johns Hopkins University, University of Delaware, Clemson University, and University of Massachusetts-Lowell have jointly established a multi-university, Phase I I/UCRC entitled the Advanced Mammalian Biomanufacturing Innovation Center (AMBIC). Over the past two decades, the biopharmaceutical industry has emerged as one of the major manufacturing industries and engines of growth in the US economy. Biomanufacturing represents nearly 2% of the total US GDP and its fraction is expanding. Much of biomanufacturing involves the use of cells to make medicines. Examples of these types of medicines include cancer medicines and vaccines. A key element in developing these medicines is the need to establish complex manufacturing processes. AMBIC will implement engineering innovations to enhance the capabilities of our nation to manufacture these important life-extending and life-saving medicines. Such improvements will improve the competitiveness of US biomanufacturing in coming decades leading to more economic investment by these companies and more jobs for American workers. <br/>The mission of AMBIC is to develop enabling technologies, knowledge, design tools and methods that apply and integrate high-throughput and genome-based technologies to fast-track advanced biomanufacturing processes. AMBIC is the first I/UCRC dedicated to mammalian cell culture upstream development focusing on Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, the principal biopharmaceutical production host of industry. AMBIC will bring together leading academic and industrial biotechnologists focused on mammalian cell culture manufacturing at a pre-competitive research level to address the complex problems in biopharmaceutical manufacturing. This multi-university center will allow AMBIC to leverage the skills and the expertise of many faculty members across the Sites. AMBIC will be a critical catalyst towards maintaining national excellence in biopharmaceutical production by conducting research in: 1) Understanding Industrially-Relevant Biology (e.g., all -omics, bioinformatics, process and product quality, etc.); 2) Process Monitoring & Control (e.g., analytics, instrumentation, data mining and modeling); 3) Consensus and Standardization Issues (e.g., standards, simple fingerprints, raw material issues, regulatory issues, forensic bioprocessing, clonality). Through systems-level biology analysis, novel cell line development, bioreactor optimization, and advanced analytics, AMBIC will provide transformative solutions that can lower biomanufacturing costs and improve bioprocessing efficiency. Most importantly, these advances may ultimately serve to make more biopharmaceuticals available to patients that need them and lower overall health care costs for consumers. In addition, AMBIC will establish and maintain a pipeline of educated and motivated students at multiple levels for careers in biopharmaceutical manufacturing and development. Collaborations with corporate partners will enable the students to work on the most pressing problems that the industry faces. Furthermore, this center will serve to engage and excite students from under-represented minority populations to pursue a career in life sciences, engineering, or related STEM fields. An important part of the AMBIC activities and a committed goal of the PI's is to increase the participation of women and under-represented minorities in STEM disciplines by energizing students from all backgrounds about the exciting opportunities to help others through STEM careers in biotechnology and biomedicine.
Coastal landscapes experience a variety of environmental stresses caused by changes in land&#8232;use, climate, storm frequency and intensity, and saltwater intrusion. Research at the Clemson University &#8232;Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology and Forest Science (BICEFS) focuses on understanding how three major components of the landscape - water, vegetation, and wildlife - are affected by and respond to man-made and natural disturbances. Research at BICEFS spans from the heart of cities to the wildest places in the landscape in an effort to understand how these components&#8232;are interconnected. In the last three years, BICEFS has doubled the size of its faculty from five to ten, adding new research lines in wildlife biology, landscape ecology, and ecosystem service economics. This project responds to that growth by adding a 1110-square-foot screened lab to an existing lab building to provide new, flexible workspace to support new research initiatives, field lab activities, and training. The institute's location in coastal South Carolina enables outside activities year-round and therefore the design provides energy efficiency and simplicity for cleaning, maintenance, and project specific set up. <br/><br/>Like many field stations, BICEFS operates its labs and major equipment on a shared basis. Lab space is designated to various activities or analyses that support major research lines, rather than to individual investigators. As the faculty has expanded in the last two years, common space has been repurposed for more specialized uses and upgraded or new instrumentation has been added as part of start-up or state-funded initiatives. As a result, the lab is limited by available workspace for staging experiments, sample processing, instrument maintenance, etc. Various space studies have provided recommendations for lab space on a per scientist basis that is sufficient to support a vibrant research program and the development of graduate&#8232;and undergraduate research. To bring capacity up to these recommendations, a 1110-ft2 screened workspace will be constructed on the side and end of the existing laboratory building. The construction is a simple design, with a concrete slab, screened walls, and a metal roof. Basic electrical and plumbing hookups are included, as well as shelving, cabinets, and portable furniture. A walk-in cooler will be installed at one end of the space to store plant, soil, and animal samples. The flexible, all-season design facilitates research by faculty and students and, in part, that of collaborators from 39 other institutions that use the property. The design also facilitates lab-type classroom activities and workshops. The Institute's web site is www.clemson.edu/baruch.
