Highly efficient and scalable computing systems are crucial to scientific discovery and technology innovation critical to national security and human society. However, the scalability of HPC systems is increasingly constrained by the power requirement and the necessity to limit the power density of components and server rooms. Comprising millions of components, today?s HPC systems already consume megawatts of power; to meet an insatiate demand for performance from mission-critical applications, future systems will consist of even more components and consume more power. To resolve the conflicting needs of scaling performance and limiting power, this research develops enabling technology for efficient and scalable computing on emerging and future computer systems bounded by power budgets.<br/><br/>The proposed power-bounded HPC approach recognizes power as a scarce resource and exploits hardware overprovisioning to scale performance within a power budget. Targeting at emerging heterogeneous HPC clusters comprising power-aware multicore CPUs and manycore accelerators, this research studies how to utilize all available power to maximize performance and power efficiency at component, node, and cluster levels for a wide range of applications. Specifically, this research (1) designs a novel application-aware cross-component scheduling system for power-bounded multicore computing, (2) creates a cooperative hybrid computing framework for power-bounded heterogeneous computing, and (3) develops analytical models and techniques to support large scale power-bounded computing. The completion of this research promotes novel system and software designs that efficiently utilize every watt of power on computation; the resulting analytical models form the theoretical foundation for designing future HPC systems, architectures, and building blocks. This project integrates educational components that engage graduate and undergraduate students in innovative HPC research, and broaden the participation of underrepresented and K-12 students.
1551534<br/>Cates<br/><br/>Membrane processes are now being used for many environmental applications such as drinking water and wastewater treatment. They are also used in indirect potable reuse and desalination plants. One of the single biggest issues is membrane fouling which increases the operational and maintenance cost. This project uses ultraviolet radioluminescence, a potentially transformative tool for membrane biofouling prevention, with many theoretical advantages over chemical antimicrobial strategies currently being researched. <br/><br/>The concept, conceived by the PI, involves incorporation of inorganic phosphor materials within reverse osmosis or nanofiltration membrane module feed channels, which emit germicidal ultraviolet radiation when excited by X-rays. The penetrating ability of high-energy X-rays could thus allow controllable ultraviolet treatment within the typically inaccessible confines of spiral-wound modules by employing externally-situated X-ray sources to excite the phosphors within. This approach is attractive in theory, but its predicted feasibility currently relies on cursory simulations involving simplified scenarios and approximate values of X-ray attenuation, phosphor efficiency, and microbial UVC dose response from the literature. In order to predict if RL membrane biofouling control (RMBC) can become a viable technology in the future, the PI proposes to conduct exploratory research involving simplified proof-of-concept experiments to probe internal microbial inactivation rates. This data will then be assessed with regards to conventional X-ray sources and emerging high-efficiency flat panel sources. Before full-scale research efforts are expended, it should also be demonstrated that the expected X-ray and UVC doses required to adequately curtail fouling are not high enough to significantly impact the working lifetimes of membranes. The PIs propose 10 months of experiments to explore these factors and reveal the feasibility of RMBC without requiring intensive prototype development. The approach being proposed is; (1) the first known method of achieving UV inactivation of bacteria within small spaces confined by UV-opaque materials, and, (2) the first use of UV radiation in directly deterring biofouling within modules. While the individual phenomena of X-ray transmission, RL, and UVC microbial inactivation are qualitatively well-understood - though in disparate contexts - this project will be the first to demonstrate how they perform in succession and to quantify the outcome. The research will thus support the PI's goals of instilling greater interaction between students in these two fields in order to encourage advancement of transformative sustainable technologies. The PIs have also developed a plan to include undergraduate summer interns of underrepresented minorities in future embodiments of this research.
This workshop proposal focuses on developing a national agenda for research in broadening participation in engineering by those who self-identify as persons with disabilities, veterans, low income/first generation or members of the LGBTQ community. The effort to increase the numbers of students who study computer science and engineering is a national imperative. Furthermore, there is a need to ensure this workforce is representative of the nation's populations as a diverse workforce will spark greater innovation and creativity through the incorporation of multiple perspectives and experiences in the creation of technology. Efforts to create a more diverse workforce have often focused on interventions to recruit and retain under-represented populations. As a result progress has not occurred at a substantial rate as these efforts tend to be localized and not easily scaled. What is needed is greater research in understanding the various factors that impede and influence the full participation of these underserved groups.<br/><br/>The project will convene a workshop of thought leaders, including scholars, practitioners, policy makers and others from a broad spectrum of social science disciplines. Brought together from across the nation, the participants will seek to develop an understanding of how best to increase research capacity to better understand why these groups are so underrepresented in the computer science and engineering workforce. Participants will identify existing research and new research possibilities regarding computing and engineering participation by persons from the specified under-served groups. The goal is to help define the national agenda for areas of research in the field of broadening participation for these targeted populations in the engineering and computer science workforce.
This project will use an 8-year data set from the Poker Flat Incoherent Scatter Radar (PFISR) to investigate the climatology and variability of high-latitude lower thermospheric winds. The analysis will address questions of the relative contribution of energy and momentum transfer from different sources. A long-term database of wind profiles will be developed and made available to the community to be used for testing of complex models.<br/><br/>This study will advance the understanding of ion-neutral coupling and energy, mass and momentum transfer between the magnetosphere, thermosphere, and atmosphere, and will investigate auroral effects on lower thermospheric winds. Case studies will be used to examine events of strong atmospheric or auroral forcing. The long-term data base will provide information about trends in lower thermospheric winds and which forcing mechanisms are most responsible for long-term variability.
Corrosion of reinforcing steel in concrete structures is one of the critical parameters in deterioration of concrete structures. It is hypothesized that reduction in grain size in steel can significantly reduce corrosion in reinforcing bars. Analytical and experimental studies will be pursued to correlate between grain size and level of corrosion. The experiments in this EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project will include putting the reinforcing steel in the simulated concrete environment. The grain size in steel will be altered using thermal cycles to determine effects of grain size on corrosion and mechanical properties. The reinforcing steel will be subjected to chloride contaminated concrete pore solution and the level of corrosion on the corroded steel bars will be assessed using different microscopic and spectroscopic analyses. Mechanical properties of the steel with different grain sizes will be obtained with standard tests. Cost analysis of the alteration of grain size will be pursued in this exploratory project to determine viability of the process.<br/><br/>Electron backscatter diffraction technique to obtain quantitative microstructural map will be used for crystallographic nature of the steel specimens. This technique reveals grain size, grain boundary character, grain orientation, texture, and phase identity of the specimens. The microstructural map in an analytical model will allow predicting the pitting corrosion behavior of steel with different grain sizes. Physical and chemical composition of the steel will be obtained using scanning electrochemical microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and optical profiler. The analytical model will include pitting growth as a variable. Life cycle cost analysis will be pursued as related to grain size necessary to reduce corrosion. A procedure that is in a standard for cost analysis for measuring life cycle costs in buildings will be used for this purpose. The final results of this exploratory project will be to understand corrosion as related to grain size of steel exposed to environment of concrete.
1066658 (Landis). The aim of the proposed research is to identify the optimal disposal options and infrastructure for compostable bio-based polymers based on each of the three pillars of sustainability. To this end, the research team will quantify the life cycle environmental impacts of different disposal options (environment), evaluate organizational (society) and economic barriers (economy), quantify stakeholders? willingness to pay for infrastructure (economy), assess consumers? disposal habits (environment) and evaluate methods to alter disposal habits (society). These factors will be used to quantify the environmental end of life profile for biopolymers and to contribute to the development of compostable biopolymer infrastructure. The results of the study will contribute to the scientific understanding of infrastructure development for biopolymers, both from the perspective of best management practices, barriers to infrastructure change, and optimal disposal for compostable biopolymers. In addition, the study will result in a comprehensive analysis of consumer disposal habits in the food services industry and will identify optimum disposal scenarios that result in minimum environmental impact while maximizing ease of implementation through stakeholder based life cycle assessment (SBLCA). The research will contribute significantly to advances in methodological development of novel, integrated approaches to assess the tradeoffs and sustainability of a set of alternatives. The results of the project are targeted to aid in the fundamental development and understanding of models that incorporate aspects of human behavior and survey results into life cycle assessment. The project will contribute to multiple avenues of broader impacts from the proposed collaboration with Sustainable Pittsburgh and local businesses to the PIs? plan for incorporation of the research into curriculum and undergraduate research. Additionally, the PIs are collaborating with Shaler High School and the Carnegie Science Center to create modules that address composting and biopolymers in the environment. The collaboration with Sustainable Pittsburgh will connect local companies to the proposed research. The development of educational materials to be employed during waste audits at local restaurants (e.g. literature and creative methods of sharing information on composting) as well as the development of a Best Practices report and workshop for Sustainable Pittsburgh will provide a unique opportunity for the research to reach a broad range of consumers and business owners
This Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program grant supports fundamental research on the design of urban buildings that can be readily remodeled, upgraded, expanded or otherwise adapted. Buildings that cannot adapt are at risk of becoming obsolete, and recent surveys of building demolitions in select metropolitan areas have revealed that obsolescence, not structural failure, is the leading reason for demolition. In response, this research will study domestic and international building projects to identify the physical aspects of buildings that make them likely to be demolished or adapted. Findings from the research will be used to create tools that architects and engineers can apply to design adaptable urban buildings. Such buildings will promote economic, social, and environmental sustainability of cities as they address unprecedented and accelerating trends in urbanization, climate change, and technological advancement. University students and industry practitioners will participate in all phases of the research and will be instructed on the theory and practice of adaptable building design. <br/><br/>There is need to transform current prediction-based design practices, which are incomplete with regard to changing demands and obsolescence. To that end a Learning Buildings Framework (LBF) will be created by integrating graph theory, risk analysis concepts, the Delphi Method, and adaptability theories from manufacturing engineering. The LBF will be the first quantitative and rigorously tested method for evaluating design-based building adaptability. Data for validation will be compiled through partnerships with domestic and international engineering, architecture, and construction companies, and will provide an orders-of-magnitude increase in the quality and quantity of empirical data on building demolition and adaptation. By providing a means of quantifying adaptability, the research will give traction to the "design for adaptability" philosophy that has been widely discussed yet narrowly implemented. Relationships established in the course of this research will support development of an international research and education program on adaptable urban infrastructure.
Proposal: 1553945<br/>PI: Ding, Feng <br/><br/>With the rapid development of nanotechnology, engineered nanoparticles (NPs) may be released to the environmental and biological systems either purposely or accidentally. With many proteins enriched in the environmental and biological media as the functional building blocks, they can be absorbed onto the NP surface, forming the so-called NP-protein corona. It is the protein coronae rather than the original NPs that are "seen" by cells and tissues and subsequently determine the biological and/or pathological functions of these released NPs. The objective of this proposal is to develop and apply state-of-the-art computer simulation methods to understand the fundamental aspects of the corona formation and to determine the physical and chemical properties of NPs that dictate the protein absorption. The obtained knowledge will help guide the design of novel NPs that promotes the intended biological functions and prevents the unintended pathological responses, enabling the "safe-by-design" to the broad scientific and engineering community for modeling and predicting corona formation and rapid risk assessment of NP exposures. <br/><br/>In this CAREER proposal, the PI proposes to apply the multiscale discrete molecular dynamics (DMD) methodology to characterize the structure and dynamics of NP-protein corona and to identify the physicochemical determinants of the NP-protein interactions. The objective of this research will be accomplished by pursuing the following specific aims: 1) Develop NP models and their interactions with biomolecules for DMD simulations; 2) Uncover the physicochemical determinants of NP-protein binding; 3) Characterize the structure and dynamics of protein aggregation in the corona; and 4) Extend the research and education in classroom and laboratory more broadly to other education and scientific research community. The developed and validated computational methodology will be shared with the broad scientific research communities. The proposed research projects will uncover the structural and dynamic properties of NP-protein corona at the molecular and atomic level and determine the physicochemical determinants of the molecular complex formation. The obtained results from the proposed mechanistic studies will be pivotal in designing more efficient and safe NPs with optimal properties to promote intended biological functions and minimize the pathological implications of NP exposure. <br/><br/>Broader impacts of this proposal include the sustainable development of nanotechnology and improves applications of nanomedicine. Funding of this research will also support students training at the interfaces of physics, material science, biology, and environmental science and engineering, update physics curriculum to reflect the current trend in science, and increase the diversity of physics education and research. The proposed research will develop and validate critical predictive tools to effectively and efficiently model the nano-bio interface, which can be used for engineering NPs with novel biological functions as well as for NP risk assessment. In addition, easy accessibility and enhanced usability of the developed tools will benefit the broad science and engineering community working in the field.
Abstract (Getman, 1554385)<br/>The proposed research will refine molecular simulation models for catalytic reactions in the presence of liquid water and apply the calculations to an electrochemical process for ammonia synthesis that could potentially replace the long-standing, but energy intensive, Haber-Bosch gas phase process. The research is integrated with an educational plan that introduces molecular level simulation concepts to students across levels ranging from high school to graduate research.<br/><br/>Theoretical understanding of catalytic materials and processes has advanced significantly in recent years due to rapid improvements in computer resources. This theoretical understanding is streamlining the process of catalyst discovery and moving the field of catalysis toward the prediction of new processes and materials and away from the traditional trial-and-error approach. However, this transition has been slow in the area of liquid phase catalysis, especially electrocatalysis, in large part because of incomplete understanding of the interactions that occur between fluid molecules and the catalyst surface. The research proposed here will take a large step toward better understanding these interactions by considering their free energies, whereas prior treatments have only considered their enthalpies. Traditional modeling equations will be refined and extended by adding, for the first time, free energy contributions due to rotation, translation, and interaction occurring between liquid-phase molecules and species adsorbed to the catalyst surface. The refined models will then be directed toward understanding the reaction between liquid water and gaseous nitrogen in an electrocatalytic environment to produce ammonia under near-ambient temperature and pressure conditions. The improved simulation models will pave the way for a more rational approach to catalyst discovery across a broad range of liquid phase catalytic reactions, and the educational materials will train coming generations of students in molecular-level phenomena and the effective use of molecular simulation tools.
Non-technical: <br/>This CAREER award made by the Biomaterials program in the Division of Materials Research to Clemson University will study the development of artificial implant materials with modified surfaces. These coatings are expected to resist deterioration and failure of implant materials by actively decreasing the circulating oxygen-induced material damage. The human immune system reacts to an artificial implant, such as a replacement hip or knee joint, by attacking it and degrading it chemically. Eventually, this implant could fail and then need to be repaired or replaced, and involves surgeries that could be too risky for many elderly and infirm patients. The immune system could still attack an artificial implant even under rigorously sterile conditions and even with "inert" materials, such as stainless steel. The studies carried out with this NSF CAREER award would lead to development of artificial implants with novel coatings that resist failure by actively preventing their chemical degradation. The proposed research would benefit society significantly by: (1) extending the functional lifetimes of artificial implants; (2) reducing morbidity and mortality risks, particularly among elderly and infirm patients; and (3) decreasing pain and inflammation that occur after implantation. This investigator plans to integrate the research activities of college students into this research. Additionally, K-12 teachers will be offered a summer course designed to help them incorporate biomaterial topics into their K-12 science classes. This award will address the current shortfall in science, technology, engineering and mathematics degrees by fostering interest in and successful completion of these degrees by underserved and underrepresented students. This award is co-funded by the Physiology, Mechanisms & Biomechanics program in the Division of Integrative Organismal Systems, and Emerging Frontiers program, both in the Directorate for Biological Sciences. <br/><br/>Technical: <br/>Human implantation of an artificial material into a human triggers the foreign body reaction (FBR), which leads to adhering of macrophages to the artificial implant materials (AIM) and damaging them via the release of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Eventually, ROS-induced AIM damage could cause the implant to fail, necessitating additional surgical procedures that could result in high morbidity and mortality risks. These hazards are currently unavoidable, as the FBR occurs under even rigorously sterile conditions and the accompanying ROS damages in chemically-inert implant materials such as stainless steel and fluoropolymer plastics. This CAREER award would enable the development of biocompatible AIMs that resist deterioration and failure of implants by actively decreasing ROS-induced material damage. The first aim of the project is to covalently link self-regenerating catalyst coatings based on N-heterocyclic carbine-ruthenium complexes to artificial implant materials such as polymers [poly(methyl methacrylate), polyethylene, polypropylene, etc.] and inorganic materials (hydroxyapatite, titanium, titania, stainless steel, etc.). In addition to the preparation of large number of substrates with catalyst coatings, linker systems and surface loadings, these modified implant materials will be tested against different cell cultures/media to establish the ability of these immobilized catalysts to reduce reactive oxygen before and after exposure to cells for up to two weeks. The second aim of this award is: a) to study damage to implant materials under simulated FBR conditions in vitro; and b) to visualize and quantify the production of ROS and inflammatory cytokines of macrophages reacting to catalytically active substrates. Additionally, this CAREER award would also contribute in reducing the STEM degree shortfall facing the U.S., particularly among underserved and underrepresented minority students, by integrating technical college students into biomaterials research, and teaching biomaterial concepts and topics to K-12 science teachers.
Rising rates of chronic conditions such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases are driving the demand for biologic drugs used to treat them. Currently, there are over 130 biologics approved for use in the US, with a market exceeding $140 B. Over 900 new biologics targeting more than 100 diseases are under development. New product commercialization will require significant expansions in production capacity and improvements in manufacturing flexibility to meet future market demands. In addition, the emergence of biosimilars, biobetters, and increasing competition will apply economic pressure on biomanufacturers to innovate new drug manufacturing technologies to lower production costs. Innovations are especially needed in downstream drug purification, which often limits the production capacity and contributes 30-40% of the overall manufacturing cost. This I-Corps team is developing a platform (PuriTM membranes) to dramatically enhance production capacity and flexibility in the downstream purification of biologic drugs. The disposable nature of the PuriTM platform is expected to reduce biomanufacturing production costs significantly.<br/><br/>This project is expected to accelerate market entry of PuriTM membrane innovations by developing the entrepreneurial knowledge and skills of the I-Corps team that are needed to translate the innovation from the academic laboratory to the industry sector. PuriTM adsorptive membrane modules are single-use membrane products that purify biologic drugs. They are characterized by high drug binding capacity, high selectivity, and high tolerance to feedstock conditions. Laboratory research has demonstrated that the firstgeneration PuriTM membranes specifically address all of the known customer pain points. Through customer interviews and use of the business model canvas, the team will test the proposition that these single-use adsorptive membrane innovations will derive commercial value from their abilities to increase the production capacity and flexibility of biomanufacturing facilities and lower the manufacturing cost of biologics. Identification of early acceptance customers also is expected as an outcome of the project. The team will develop alpha prototypes and work closely with potential customers on external validation of these prototypes. Completion of external validation will provide additional opportunities for the team to understand customer needs and test assumptions about the product utility and design. It also will provide vital data to attract external investors and new customers. A validated business plan and minimum viable products are<br/>expected at the end of the I-Corps program.
CAREER: InN nanowire based multifunctional nanocantilever sensors<br/><br/>The goal of this CAREER research is to design, fabricate, and utilize InN nanowire (NW) based multifunctional V-shaped nanocantilever (VNC) sensors for detection of analyte molecules in ambient conditions, and investigation of electrical signal propagation in neurons. The approach to attain this goal involves: (i) Design, growth, and characterization of V-shaped InN NWs, (ii) Fabrication of VNC sensor arrays utilizing the V-shaped NWs, (iii) Investigation of structural and electromechanical properties of the VNCs, (iv) Multimodal molecular detection using the VNC sensors, and (v) Investigation of electrical signal propagation in neurons. Success of this project will lead to the development of technologies that can have overarching impacts in the diverse fields of defense, homeland security, environmental monitoring, medical diagnosis, drug discovery, scanning probe microscopy, and neuro-medicine. <br/><br/>Intellectual merit: The project activities are anticipated to lead to the development of a viable and inexpensive fabrication approach for NEMS sensors that at present relies heavily on expensive electron-beam or ion-beam lithography. The novel transduction method based on deflection induced gating offers an innovative solution that addresses the critical issues of scalability and large scale integration in MEMS based integrated circuits. The multimodal detection technique to be utilized in this project can significantly enhance the reliability of analyte detection scheme. With their small size, low power consumption, and high sensitivity, the VNC sensors can be easily integrated with emerging technologies such as energy harvesting and radio frequency identification devices giving rise to miniaturized next generation systems and components capable of working remotely over very long durations. The approach for the measurement of electrical signals in neurons using an array of VNC probes can lead to significant advancement of neurology and neuro-science, by opening up non-traditional means for rapid and nanoscale characterization of neuronal signal propagation in-vivo. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: In the educational and outreach activities, the PI plans to involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year throughout its duration. Separately, he will also recruit one minority high school or undergraduate student to work on the project by participating in the SCAMP program of the university. The project activities entail collaborative and interdisciplinary research between one science and three engineering departments, which will significantly broaden the scientific and technical knowledge of all the students involved. The research results and activities will be disseminated to a broader audience through lectures in the South Carolina Citizen?s School of Nanotechnology program, development of a research website, and development of a graduate course.
This Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Site program, Summer Undergraduate Research Experience in Solid-State Devices for Electronics, Photonics, and Magnetics Technology (SURE), at Clemson University, offers state-of-the-art, multi-disciplinary research experiences in the areas of electronic, photonic, and magnetic devices, including material and device design, processing, characterization and modeling, to diverse and talented cohorts of undergraduates from institutions with limited or no research opportunities. The program is intended for students who are rising juniors and seniors, majoring in electrical engineering, computer engineering, materials engineering, or related areas of mathematics, physics, and bioengineering. Micro and nanofabrication of solid-state devices are critical components of modern economic development, and diverse leadership in research on devices for electronics, photonics, and magnetics is a key to sustained US economic competitiveness. Yet many undergraduate students have limited exposure to advanced topics in solid-state device and materials processing technology resulting in a lack of awareness and understanding of the types of research problems that arise in the field. The SURE program will be centered on the philosophy of developing tomorrow's leaders in academic and industrial research on solid-state device technology. <br/><br/>The primary goal of the SURE program is to provide each undergraduate participant with a ten-week scientifically rigorous, intellectually demanding, research experience within a highly collegial environment of collaboration with faculty and other students. The program focuses on the development of the technical skills and critical-thinking abilities of the participants and on their exposure to substantive, representative research problems in device-related technology. It will also emphasize development of the participants' technical communication abilities through several professional-development seminars and workshops and enhance their understanding of the ethical and societal context within which engineering research is performed. The discoveries made during these collaborations will be communicated to the broader scientific community via publications and presentations. <br/><br/>This site is supported by the Department of Defense in partnership with the NSF REU program.
Professors Pennington and Garcia and their colleagues in the Chemistry Department of Clemson University host a Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) site. This site is supported by the Department of Defense in partnership with the NSF Chemistry REU program. This Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP) brings ten participants annually from regional Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), primarily undergraduate institutions, and two-year technical colleges. Undergraduates perform research in the areas of advanced materials and chemical biology. In addition, the undergraduates are provided many opportunities for personal and professional growth and development through numerous workshops, seminars, and panel discussions on topics ranging from the fundamentals of instrumentation techniques, research opportunities in the various disciplines of chemistry, career planning and preparation, and the role of women and underrepresented groups in the sciences. The recruitment and selection process targets female and underrepresented minority students who, despite having academic metrics that limit their opportunities in conventional REU programs, feature noncognitive factors (positive self-concept, realistic self-appraisal, long-range goals, system navigation, leadership, and demonstrated community service) that indicate a strong aptitude for research.<br/><br/>The REU students perform research in two high impact areas: advanced materials and chemical biology to improve the health and quality of life of our society. Some of the areas of study available to students include examination of carbon nanotube-peptide composite structures, the synthesis and characterization of plasmonic nanoparticle assemblies, the synthesis of proton conducting polymer electrodes with applications to fuel cells, the development of nanocomposites and biocompatible surfaces, the study of quantum dots with applications to sensors and imaging, and the development of peptide-based chiral catalysts. The research training students receive in the lab, the professional development fostered by the workshops, panel discussions, and seminars at Clemson University, and the subsequent presentation of their work at professional conferences contributes to students' ability to successfully pursue a productive career in chemistry and related sciences.
The research focuses on the Monin-Obukhov similarity hypothesis, which is the theoretical foundation for understanding the surface layer of the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL). The hypothesis has been used successfully to scale many statistics (e.g., those containing the vertical velocity) in the surface layer. However, it fails to scale some other important statistics, such as the horizontal velocity variances and the large-scale horizontal velocity spectra in the convective surface layer.<br/><br/>The research will provide a more universal scaling framework for the influence of shear and buoyancy on the surface layer turbulence, termed multi-point Monin-Obukhov similarity (MMO). In the research, the PI will systematically investigate MMO through its spectral predictions and the spectral dynamics in the surface layer. Systematical tests of the predicted large-scale velocity and temperature spectra using high-resolution large-eddy simulation (LES) fields will be conducted. The research will be conducted in collaboration with Dr. Martin Otte at Computer Science Corporation (CSC), a research firm contracting with the Environmental Protection Agency.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit:<br/>The research addresses the critical issue of Monin-Obukhov similarity of the atmospheric surface layer. It is expected to further validate MMO through its prediction of the turbulence spectra and cospectra; it will provide an important understanding of the physical basis for MMO. Due to the central role of the Monin-Obukhov similarity in our understanding of the surface layer dynamics, the research on MMO will provide a new framework for analyzing and understanding the surface layer turbulence, and will have a strong impact on the understanding and modeling of the ABL in general.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts:<br/>The research has broader impacts in several areas. It will provide education and research opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students. Improved understanding of the surface layer turbulence and the ABL in general will be of importance to developing predictive models for atmospheric dispersion and diffusion, weather forecasting, atmospheric chemistry, wind energy, and land-atmosphere exchange. The modeling approach will also be important for modeling boundary layers with a strong pressure gradient (e.g., curved boundary layers) in the atmosphere and in engineering flows. Advances in these areas will benefit the environment and society.
This award supports fundamental research into the interactions of a fish-like body with a surrounding fluid, and the ways in which motion of the body can transfer energy and momentum for propulsion and maneuverability. The research builds upon recent results that show how the complex dynamics of certain types of fish-like bodies can be captured in the form of a relatively tractable nonholonomic constraint, that is, an algebraic relationship between the velocities of different parts of the system. This project will generalize and extend the consequences of this result, and clarify the variables that govern this class of fluid-structure interaction. Robotic platforms will be built to experimentally validate the theoretical insights. The ability to precisely maneuver small aquatic robots has many important applications, including the inspection of underwater structures, environmental monitoring, and underwater exploration. The results of this project will lead to improved design of aquatic robots with different shapes, sizes and propulsion mechanisms. The natural appeal of fish-like robots will be leveraged to recruit members of underrepresented groups into engineering, to develop attractive independent research projects for undergraduate students, and to demonstrate and motivate key aspects of fluid mechanics in undergraduate courses. The project provides a rich multidisciplinary research education and training environment, demonstrating synergy between subjects, including fluid mechanics, nonlinear dynamics, geometric mechanics, and control theory, which are rarely connected at the undergraduate level.<br/><br/>The motion of a fish-like body in water is governed by the changes in its shape, the creation of vorticity and the interaction of the body with such vorticity. The creation of vorticity imposes a nonholonomic constraint on the motion of the body. The primary aim of the research supported by this award is to create a mathematical framework that can illuminate the interplay of abstract shape variables and nonholonomic constraints on the motion of a body in water. Shape variables will take form of internal masses and rotors. The constraints in the form of vorticity creation will be modeled using discrete vortex approximations. Such models with the novel interpretation of vortex shedding as a nonholonomic constraint are well suited to understand and emulate the efficiency and maneuverability of fish, to investigate gaits and to design control algorithms for an aquatic robot. Aquatic robots propelled and maneuvered entirely via internal rotors or moving masses will be designed and provide a platform to validate the theoretical results.
High aspect ratio and high quality microchannels in transparent materials are critical in many important areas, such as micro-optics, microelectronics, micromechanics, and biomedicine. However, it is difficult to fabricate them using traditional machining techniques, due to the brittle nature and low thermal conductivity often found in transparent materials. Femtosecond pulsed lasers offer the potential to overcome these difficulties. However, the aspect ratio and quality of microchannels produced by femtosecond pulsed lasers are limited. This award supports fundamental research to enable significant improvement in the quality and aspect ratio of microchannels produced by femtosecond pulsed lasers.<br/><br/>The research objectives are to establish the relationships between (1) ablation mechanisms (spallation, phase explosion, fragmentation, etc.) and machining conditions (laser intensity, pulse duration, etc.); (2) ablation mechanisms and ejected particle size/velocity distributions; and (3) the size/velocity of an ejected particle and its capability of escaping a long channel. To achieve the first two objectives, a physics-based atomistic model, consisting of a molecular dynamics method, a Monte Carlo method, and a particle-in-cell method, will be developed, with laser parameters and material properties as the inputs. By predicting the distributions of temperature, pressure, and electric field within the materials, dominating ablation mechanisms will be revealed under different machining conditions. This model will also predict the sizes and velocities of the ejected particles by simulating the atom evolution during the laser-matter interaction. To verify the simulation outputs, the sizes/velocities of the ejected particles under the same conditions will be experimentally measured by the time-resolved pump-probe imaging technique. To achieve the third objective, outputs of the atomistic model, such as the temperature, pressure, and the sizes/velocities of the ejected particles after the initial laser-matter interaction, will be used as inputs into a subsequently developed smooth particle hydrodynamics model, to simulate the ejected particle evolution within the channel in a large time scale. For particles with given sizes and initial velocities, the model will predict their escape or redeposition onto the channel side walls, based on the temperature, pressure, and ambient environment inside the channel. Ejected particle moving dynamics, such as their transient locations and velocities, will also be observed in-situ using the time-resolved pump-probe imaging technique, and compared with model simulation results.
In conventional engineered materials, an engineering designer often selects a material from tabulated databases of products and completes an iterative process of checking the adequacy of the conceptual design for meeting performance requirements. The final engineering design is thus handicapped by the initial material selection. A material designer, on the other hand, works with a library of material compositions and processing methodologies with a goal to discover how new properties emerge from microstructure control, for example. The focus of material design is thus limited to achieving specific property enhancements without considering the end application of the material. There is a need to unify the material and engineering design processes so that new materials can be intentionally designed with the specific goal of incorporation into a useful product, and the engineering design can be freed from the upfront material-based constraints. This project will establish a concurrent design process combining top-down goal-oriented decision-making to optimize engineering system performance with bottom-up constraint-aware algorithms to efficiently search the domain of feasible material designs for polymer nanocomposites. This research project will provide innovation in design methodologies, enabling a competitive advantage to our nation's manufacturing industries as well as energy and defense technologies. <br/><br/>This award supports fundamental research for the development of a new design paradigm termed Concurrent, Unified, State-aware Tailoring of Materials (CUSToM). The PIs will take a Bayesian approach to searching over the design domain, facilitating explicit consideration of the uncertainties in every aspect of the process. In the CUSToM framework, computer simulation (either empirical or first-principles based) is an integral part of the search process capturing the material scientist's domain knowledge. The hypothesis underlying this project is that the top-down search processes engrained in the CUSToM framework will yield products with superior performance compared to those obtained with conventional materials design. This hypothesis will be tested on the design of polymer nanocomposites with precisely determined material microstructure, composition, and processing methods for applications in wind energy; specifically high-strength, light-weight composites for next generation wind turbine blades. The broader impacts of this work will go beyond providing a new design paradigm for engineered materials to include the training of undergraduate and graduate researchers, exposure of undergraduate and graduate students to the world of entrepreneurship, and outreach to K-12 students in order to motivate them towards careers in STEM related fields.
Obesity is one of the most pressing health challenges faced by our country, and has been the target of much attention in the mobile health (mHealth) community. While the science of obesity indicates that diet is a major factor in behavioral change to encourage healthy weight management, we are still not able to effectively, quickly and easily measure eating and drinking behavior. This project's goal is to develop a digital earpiece,­­ small and comfortable enough to wear behind the ear,­­ that can sense and detect actions such as eating and drinking. The project's long­term vision is to enable behavioral ­health researchers to better understand health-­related behaviors and, subsequently, to support the development of effective behavioral­ health interventions that promote healthy diet and behavior. Ultimately, a better understanding of eating-­related behaviors, and better design of effective interventions regarding eating behavior, will have profound impact on personal and public health as well as the national economy. The project's hardware and software prototypes will be shared widely in the research community to enable experimentation around the sensing and interaction opportunities possible in an earpiece device. Furthermore, the project directly involves undergraduate and graduate students in interdisciplinary research, and outreach to middle­school students, expanding the supply of scientists educated in this important emerging topic. <br/><br/>The project's approach is to build a prototype wireless earpiece, small enough to wear behind the ear, with low­power (microwatt­scale) electronics and software sufficient to allow for the battery to last a full waking day; to develop efficient algorithms for detecting and distinguishing health­related behaviors (eating, drinking, smoking, speaking, and stress); and to develop easy and effective means for the wearer to interact with the earpiece and its applications. <br/>The team expects to develop novel low­-power analog electronics and distributed software algorithms for inferring relevant behaviors from sensor data; develop novel interaction modalities involving bone ­conduction audio between the earpiece and its wearer, complemented by tactile interfaces on the earpiece, on the skin, or on auxiliary devices like a wristband or smartphone; and validate these approaches through user studies and experiments inside and outside the lab.
This collaborative project will facilitate a three-year international research experience for U.S. undergraduates majoring in STEM disciplines. Students from a diverse regional population will be recruited as summer cohorts to participate in research projects with researchers from the Brazilian Science-Technology Corridor (Sao Paulo - Campinas - Sao Carlos). The interest in analytical applications combining microfluidics and nanomaterials has grown exponentially in the last years. Considering these advances and their importance for future developments, this IRES program aims to provide the tools for students to develop the skills required to face an internationally competitive job market linked to chemical analysis. This proposal aims to boost education and training in a creative, multidisciplinary, and culturally-rich environment. A focus on minority recruiting, combined with the involvement of graduate students as mentors, will provide the support mechanisms required to expand and strengthen the pool of participants as well as the research experience. <br/><br/>Recent developments in nanotechnology and microfluidics have allowed the understanding and rational utilization of a series of micro total analysis systems (uTAS). The existing links between these two fields have enabled crossing the traditional borders and the development of unique training opportunities for students in science and engineering tracks. Furthermore, the interest in analytical applications combining microfluidics and nanomaterials has grown exponentially in the last years. Although this integration has enhanced sensing, separation, and extraction procedures, the applicability of specific nanomaterials for chemical analysis depends mainly on the chemical composition, structure, size, morphology, and preparation method. Considering these characteristics and their importance for future developments, this IRES program aims to provide students an enriching research experience and link chemical properties with a real-world analytical problem.
