Undergraduate Research Experience (URE) programs have positive effects on student understanding of the nature of science, motivation, and academic performance. However, little is understood about how UREs affect students' views of research, their identities as researchers, and their beliefs about knowledge in engineering. Investigating students' researcher identities and beliefs about knowledge (epistemic beliefs) in the context of URE is important because they shape the students' perceptions, values, and interactions with others, which can then be translated to their classes and future careers. The outcomes of this study help develop meaningful ways for students to engage, function, and learn in research spaces as well as classrooms and laboratories. Findings also expand theories about identity and epistemic beliefs in ways that are specific to engineering fields. The goal of the project is to address the challenge of producing engineers who are well-equipped to tackle complex, ill-defined, and open-ended problems similar to those encountered when doing research. The results enable engineering educators to provide novel educational experiences, developing students as future researchers and engineers such that these experiences will have long term impacts. The project's broader impacts include benefits to fields beyond engineering that engage students in research. Also, by including diverse student populations in the study, a deeper understanding is gained about how students from different backgrounds, engineering fields, and types of institutions experience and benefit from participating in research.<br/><br/>The overarching research question for this project is: How do undergraduate engineering students develop their identities as researchers and their ways of knowing engineering through research experiences? There are four specific aims of this project. The first is to understand how undergraduate engineering students conceptualize and construct what it means to be a researcher. The second is to discover what factors the students think affect their researcher identity development. The third is to find out how these students describe what it means to know something in their fields. The fourth is to understand how students form their beliefs about the nature of knowledge and knowing during research experiences. A grounded theory approach is used to expand existing identity and epistemic belief frameworks to develop a theory within the context of research experiences in engineering. The three-phase study uses open-ended surveys and interviews to identify themes that answer the research aims and can be used to develop workshops. The intellectual merit of the project lies in developing an engineering-specific learning theory based on students' beliefs about ways of knowing and their identities as researchers. This theory is used to inform and work with engineering educators to find ways to apply research findings in engineering degree programs and UREs. Workshops for engineering educators focus on ways to incorporate the aspects of UREs that help build students' ways of knowing and their identities as participants in their research communities and their engineering fields.
1534304(Sarupria) & 1533874(Battiato)<br/><br/>This project addresses a grand challenge facing society today--how to make clean water available to a growing population at low cost. Membranes used in water treatment processes are exposed to feed waters containing organic, inorganic, and biological species, which leads to fouling and loss of membrane productivity over time. Since performance loss due to fouling is one of the largest costs associated with membrane processes in water treatment, discovery of new surface treatments that limit fouling would have significant economic and societal impacts. Fouling propensity of a membrane depends greatly on its surface properties such as chemistry and morphology. The goal of this project is to develop the multiscale mathematical framework to predict fouling behavior on the surfaces of membranes with different geometric patterns and chemical coatings. The ability to predict fouling properties of new membrane surfaces in silico will accelerate the discovery of novel membrane designs and decrease the time from laboratory to market. <br/><br/>In this project, comprehensive studies involving iterative feedback between computational modeling and experimental measurements will be performed to test two main hypotheses: (1) targeted combinations of geometric and chemical patterns on a membrane surface will significantly reduce membrane fouling, and (2) experimentally-trained multiscale computational models will accelerate the discovery of novel geometric and chemical surface modifications that significantly reduce membrane fouling. This research will (i) produce a mathematical framework and corresponding models to identify the physical mechanisms and geometric features controlling mass and momentum transfer through and over micro- and nanopatterned membranes, (ii) provide a deep understanding of how foulants and energy fluxes are controlled and regulated by complex topologies, and (iii) elucidate how the macroscopic behavior of filtration flow rates and reactive transport processes are coupled with phenomena at the micro- and nano-scale. This work will be transformational because delivering an experimentally-validated computational framework will enable rapid screening of many membrane surface modifications to short-list the most promising ones for further testing, and it will lead to a leapfrog improvement in membrane filtration technologies. This project will provide a multidisciplinary environment for training graduate and undergraduate researchers. New communication platforms such as Zoom video conferencing will be used to deliver virtual science demonstrations and laboratory tours to elementary school students. Virtual and interactive conferences will be held bi-annually to educate a broad audience about membrane science, water purification and materials engineering.
The goal of this project is to study ultra violet (UV) processing as a viable pathway towards a sustainable method of manufacturing layered fiber reinforced materials derived from biological sources for structural applications. A key challenge in the processing of these biobased composite materials is that traditional thermal curing approaches cannot be employed since the constituent natural fibers, which are primarily made of cellulose and hemicellulose, start to degrade with prolonged exposure to high temperatures. UV curing is a fast, low temperature photopolymerization process that uses significantly less energy than thermal curing. If successful, the study will enable a cost-effective and greener process for making high-strength thick laminates that are highly critical for lightweighting automotive and aerospace structures. Lightweighting is tied to achieving improvements in fuel-efficiency and reducing pollution. The PIs will engage graduate and undergraduate students in this interdisciplinary research project and train them in understanding the integral role of process modeling, experimentation, optimization, and control in advanced sustainable manufacturing. The PIs will also leverage collaborations and interactions with industrial partners to broadly influence industrial practices for processing biobased composites.<br/><br/>The specific technical objectives of the project are to, first, extract physically motivated and experimentally verified process models for UV processing of biobased composites, and then apply them in new layering, scale-up optimization and process control schemes for building thick structural parts with these materials. The basic phenomena to be characterized by the modeling and experimental efforts include: 1) the nature of the attenuation of UV intensity as it passes through the biobased resin and fiber systems, and 2) the nature of the coupled evolution of the spatially distributed cure and temperature state. The project will also investigate the potential of a stepped-concurrent curing and layering scheme that will exploit knowledge of the cure kinetics, thermal evolution and UV attenuation in these materials. The project will apply a new hybrid modeling perspective that treats the addition of layers as discrete events on the otherwise continuous physical processes involved in curing. This perspective will help generalize the scale-up optimization of the scheme with the goal of building ever-thicker parts of highest cure quality with minimal time/energy needs. The project will also address process robustness considerations via uncertainty handling in the scale-up optimization as well as with online feedback compensation.
Adolescents have fully embraced social networks for socializing and communicating. However, cyberbullying has become widely recognized as a serious social problem, especially for adolescents using social networks. Also, cyberbullying techniques change rapidly. Perpetrators can use the camera-capacity of their mobile devices to bully others through making and distributing harmful pictures or videos of their victims via mobile social networks. While the social and psychological aspects of cyberbullying have been the subject of intense study, little research has been dedicated to tracing cyberbullying attacks accurately and automatically using computing technologies. Indeed, the development of automatic cyberbullying detection techniques is still in the nascent stages. All state-of-the-art studies in automatic cyberbullying detection have mainly focused on the content of the text written by the perpetrators of cyberbullying (a.k.a. textual cyberbullying), while largely overlooking the misuse of visual media in cyberbullying. This research reveals that there are great challenges that must urgently be resolved to ensure the most robust defense against visual cyberbullying attacks.<br/><br/>This project is designing and developing a systematic solution for automatic detection of and intervention in visual cyberbullying attacks in emerging mobile social networks. The researchers are identifying new person and situational factors associated with visual cyberbullying and designing a cross-feature classifier for automatic visual cyberbullying detection. The project is also building an adaptive cyberbullying intervention system to continuously monitor situation changes in cyberbullying and provide specific response strategies for each associated participant. The proposed methods can be potentially adopted and implemented in popular mobile social network platforms to prevent visual cyberbullying. The system designed by this project could be used to curb the rising trend in instances of cyberbullying among young people and reducing the myriad harmful effects that follow from it. In addition, since many other common cyber threats targeting adolescents must also deal with visual media now, the fundamental results generated by this project could be expanded to cope with those threats beyond cyberbullying.
Graphene has proven to be a truly unique material and the record holder for a number of physical parameters. It is expected that employment of graphene as a highly conductive and transparent material would create a new class of electronic devices characterized by excellent durability and flexural freedom. However, despite recent significant progress in scaling up fabrication of large area graphene sheets the fabrication methods still require significant effort and sophisticated multistage handling of the material. To this end, this award targets the manufacture of highly conductive graphene-based films from micron-scale sheets of reduced-graphene oxide, which can be obtained from naturally occurring graphite. The manufacturing method in this project is environmentally friendly, does not involve toxic organic solvents, and utilizes conventional industrial equipment. The approach has a significant potential to rapidly grow to industrial scale and, therefore, increase the competitiveness of US based-manufacturing and create employment opportunities. In course of the work significant effort will be directed to increase the numbers of students, especially underrepresented minorities and women, who wish to pursue advanced degrees in science and engineering. Students will benefit greatly from this project's interdisciplinary nature and hands-on approach.<br/><br/>The ultimate goal of this work is the design and understanding of a robust and scalable nanomanufacturing method for the fabrication of highly conductive, highly flexible, and transparent reduced graphene oxide (rGO) based nano-scale layers or films via a facile dip-coating process assisted with polymer adsorbed layers. The method is based on enveloping individual graphene oxide (GO) sheets in few nm thick polymer layers allowing for near-perfect formation of the GO monolayer by scalable conventional dip-coating. After the dip-coating a polymer interlayer is deposited on the GO/ RMS (reactive macromolecular super-spreader) monolayer by adsorption. The polymer interlayer is employed to promote formation of the second GO monolayer (by dip-coating) and provide carbon atoms to connect the bottom and upper rGO monolayers during the GO reduction. This work directly addresses a number of the grand challenges for the large-scale nanomanufacturing of rGO-based conductive transparent flexible films. Specifically, it is expected that the research manufacturing method will allow the straightforward and reproducible fabrication of tight GO monolayers on non-conductive substrates, control of the thickness of the rGO layer with single layer precision, and achieve high coherency and robustness of the fabricated layer. In terms of properties, the project targets the manufacture of highly conductive (low sheet resistance) and transparent (low absorbance in visible region) rGO-based nanoscale films on non-conductive oxide surfaces.
The worldwide demand for freshwater is increasing rapidly while water resources are becoming increasingly scarce. Exacerbating this imbalance is the deteriorated state of the water distribution infrastructure, which is afflicted with leakages of 15-25% of the total water supply. Consequently, the severe deterioration of this infrastructure poses a serious challenge to water sustainability. Leakage detection is an essential, but challenging, aspect of water supply management. Real-time monitoring schemes based on the changes in the vibration characteristics of the water pipelines have potential to detect leaks in a timely manner. Embedded wireless sensor networks are essential for such monitoring schemes; however, model designs and architectures of currently available wireless sensing networks remain severely constrained by the small energy reserves of environmentally-harmful batteries that last only for a limited period of time. This CyberSEES project is exploring possible hardware and software schemes for embedded wireless sensing systems, powered by locally harvested energy, to detect leakages in water distribution systems.<br/><br/>Leveraging a real-size, experimental pipeline set-up, this project explores (1) the energy harvesting potential in the water distribution system environment for use in sustainable powering of smart embedded sensing networks; (2) the use of vibration sensing-based methods to detect and locate pipeline leaks in water distribution systems; and (3) energy-efficient sensing and communication schemes suitable for use in constrained and variable energy environments. With advancements on several fronts, the research outcomes will make it possible to build smarter and adaptable water supply infrastructures for a more sustainable future.<br/><br/>By adopting the developed sustainable monitoring set-up, water utilities will be equipped to prevent leakage of treated fresh water, conserve energy, and potentially prevent catastrophic failures in water distribution systems through early-detection of defects. The developed wireless sensing-based monitoring scheme can be easily adapted to other harsh, dynamic and energy-constrained environments for defect detection. The impact of this project on research infrastructure, especially the expansion of the pipeline test bed on the Clemson University campus, is significant as it offers several follow-up research and educational opportunities. This project also offers research opportunities for undergraduates and underrepresented students in addition to graduate student mentoring.
On-line Process Analytical Technology (PAT) is needed in enabling biopharmaceutical companies to significantly improve drug quality and productivity. Current in-situ monitoring in production plants and laboratories is still mainly based on measuring temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, pressure, airflow, and liquid flow. These parameters do not give information on cell viability, cycle, size, autophagy and apoptosis that are metrics to indicate reproducibility of the bioprocess. FDA suggested key PAT technologies such as near-infrared, mid-infrared, Raman spectroscopy, fluorescence and imaging, and mass spectroscopy, are all under active development, but with limitations of one kind or another, such as limited sensitivity, difficult to use, and high cost. Dielectric spectroscopy is also studied as a promising approach, but not yet appropriate for PAT due to limited sensitivity and information contents.<br/><br/>This project involves a novel radio frequency (RF) interferometer technique for On-line Process Analytical Technology (PAT) instrument development. The obtained radio frequency (RF) probes exploit novel interference processes to enhance sensitivity while applying novel tuning mechanisms to cover broad frequency ranges and tune sensitivity for robust system operations. The RF probes are expected to have unprecedented sensitivity and robustness to analyze cell viability, autophagy, apoptosis, and size in a label-free and non-invasive manner. Many of these cell properties are not available in other PAT methods. The electronic approach is expected to enable mass produced low-cost and easy-to-use PAT instruments.
The Ceramic, Composite and Optical Materials Center (CCOMC) is an NSF Phase II, I/UCRC which is managed by Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey (Rutgers) and Clemson University (Clemson). The Center is integrated between the two university partners and is directed by an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) comprised of 21 multinational member companies and national laboratories. The mission of the CCOMC is to develop new, interdisciplinary technologies to increase the level of ceramic, polymer and optical material science, technology and engineering and to transfer these technologies to its industrial members to foster the development of competitive, reproducible ceramic, polymer fiber and composites made of them for advanced, high performance systems. The continuation proposal aims to broaden the scope of the Center to new areas that are technologically complementary and will lead towards the Center?s long terms self-sufficiency. <br/>The programs within the Center focus on the creation of new materials, new synthesis and processing methods, process based models, measurements and characterization methods for complex, integrated systems and devices. CCOMC began with program thrusts in ceramic and polymeric materials and processing, nanoparticulates and processes, opaque armor ceramics, optical material synthesis and processing and materials for energy conversion. As we move forward into the next five years, we will expand the scope of our research to include new research thrust areas in ceramic matrix composites and superhard, high temperature material. In addition we will explore green/ecofriendly processing as potential thrusts. It is critical to long-term self-sufficiency that we not only attract a broader base of members, but also be successful in securing Federal funding to strengthens new and existing thrusts to improve the visibility of the Center within both universities and abroad.
There is an established need for highly qualified K-12 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) teachers, especially in high-need schools. It can be particularly challenging to recruit middle grades STEM teachers who have a strong content background in a specific STEM discipline. With funding from the National Science Foundation's Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program, the Preparing and Mentoring Middle Grades STEM Educators to Teach in High-Need South Carolina School Districts project is recruiting career changers from STEM fields and preparing them to become middle grades STEM teachers. The project is funding 40 scholarships over 4 years. In this project, Clemson University is collaborating with Greenville County Public Schools. Recipients will be enrolled in a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program that includes initial teacher certification for Middle Grades Education. The Noyce Scholarships will expand opportunities for STEM career changers to complete the MAT program and hence also expand the number of middle grades STEM teachers in the state.<br/><br/>The project will investigate the impact of the Noyce Program by analyzing 16 years of data from the Clemson MAT in middle grades program, which has enrolled more than 250 individuals, 86 of whom have been or will be Noyce Scholars. Research questions include: (1) How do teacher efficacy and other personal characteristic affect teacher retention and success among STEM instructors? (2) Do STEM career changers possess different characteristics than STEM majors who come directly out of undergraduate majors? (3) How does the performance of the students of Noyce Scholars and non-Noyce-Scholars compare? (4) How does the performance of the students of STEM majors and non-STEM majors compare? The goal is to identify characteristics of successful STEM teachers and to determine the extent to which a STEM background strengthens the impact of a middle grades teacher.
A strong workforce in the geosciences is needed today more than ever if America is to overcome resource security challenges for water, food, and energy in the face of global change and widespread land use transitions. Despite this critical need, there is a deficit of students opting to pursue geoscience-related career paths. The overarching goal of this project is to increase the number of students at Clemson University intending to pursue a geoscience-related career by providing opportunities for both Geology majors and non-majors to engage in career-relevant geoscience research. The approach that is being taken focuses on accessing the affective domain of learning as a mechanism to increase student engagement with the geosciences, via student motivation, emotion, and connections to Earth. Targeting non-geoscience majors in this project is an important goal as they represent a large population of students that are often exposed to the geosciences through service (e.g., general education) courses, but rarely have an opportunity to participate in field or research activities, both of which are well known to be important doorways to careers in geoscience. This project enables thousands of students to be exposed to geoscience research and STEM communication, thereby making a significant impact on the development of the geoscience workforce in South Carolina. A new Industrial Affiliates program further engages students with existing geoscience professionals to promote student selection of careers in geoscience-related areas. <br/><br/>This project addresses the deficit in the geoscience workforce by creating a three tier extracurricular approach to gradually transform non-majors into geoscientists by leveraging the existing undergraduate research component of Clemson's Geology Bachelor's (BS) degree. The first tier of engages non-major students enrolled in geoscience service courses in extracurricular inquiry-based thinking that draws on the research activities of Clemson's undergraduate geoscience majors. Building on this effort, students recruited to the second tier of engagement take part in non-major oriented project-based learning activities that utilize a "citizen science" approach to data collection, geoscience problem solving with GIS, or geoscience communication and outreach. Students transitioned into the third tier of the program take part in formal undergraduate geoscience research projects. Investing in Clemson's current research program not only strengthens research experiences for current Geology majors, but also provides more diverse, engaging and interesting projects to attract non-majors. For example, the project enables cutting-edge science questions to be addressed in areas ranging across the fields of climate change, water sustainability, geomechanics, and geochemistry. The newly-developed Industrial Affiliates program further strengthens the outcomes of both this project and the undergraduate BS degree program through: professional lectures, co-mentoring of student projects and internships, and evaluation of student preparation for careers in the geosciences. Building on the existing BS degree program also allows the project to leverage Clemson's geoscience majors as ambassadors to non-majors and geoscience professionals, thereby strengthening the overall geoscience community in South Carolina. The activities in this project build on best-practices developed in the geoscience education literature and contribute to this body of research by studying how the affective domain of learning contributes to student motivation in pursuing a career in the geosciences.
Understanding the molecular behavior of frozen water is essential for predicting the future of our planet. Frozen water is present in the atmosphere -- in clouds -- where foreign particles such as mineral dust promote ice nucleation. Consequently, surface-assisted ice nucleation, i.e. heterogeneous ice nucleation, has a significant effect on cloud microphysics. This implies that it is important to accurately describe heterogeneous ice nucleation in order to be able to accurately model the weather and climate. Though theoretical and empirical descriptions have been developed, there is still no complete description of the requirements of the heterogeneous ice nucleation process, and no framework to know a priori if a given surface will be a good ice nucleating agent.<br/><br/>Through the synergistic experimental and simulation efforts, the foundation for molecular level understanding of heterogeneous ice nucleation will be built. The focus of this research will be to relate the effects of surface charge and lattice match to heterogeneous nucleation of ice with an emphasis on the free energy of formation and the nucleation rate. Straightforward molecular dynamics (MD) simulations will provide detailed insights into water behavior near mica surfaces and will be compared with experimental findings. In addition, the kinetics and thermodynamics of ice nucleation will be calculated from simulations. The research will provide the basis for building predictive models of heterogeneous ice nucleation that can be incorporated into larger scale models relevant to atmospheric chemistry and weather prediction.<br/><br/>The simulation tools developed and results of this research will provide the basis to answer several of the top 10 questions related to molecular behavior of frozen water as listed by Bartels-Rausch (Nature, 2013), which are essential for predicting the future of our planet. Phase transitions assisted by surfaces in aqueous systems are relevant to a wide variety of fields and processes including biological assemblies, surfactants, nanotoxicology, semiconductor industry, food industry and others. Also, the research presents several learning opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students in different forms. The collaborative nature of this research and the exchange program between the two scientist groups will expose the students to a multitude of tools used to study challenging problems in atmospheric chemistry.<br/><br/>The simulations will be used to develop informative videos to be used as educational tools as well as for recruitment of students into science and engineering. User-friendly modules that enable students to perform some simple molecular simulations, which can be used as supplements for class lectures to illustrate concepts in thermodynamics, kinetics and materials will be developed. These will be available to the scientific community free-of-charge. The results from the research will be published in peer-reviewed journals and will be presented in various national and international meetings.
1542727<br/>Finneran<br/><br/>On March 9 two ships collided in the Port of Houston shipping lane. The Carla Maersk, which was carrying 216,000 barrels of methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), was ruptured and an estimated 200,000 gallons of MTBE leaked into the Port of Houston. MTBE is extremely water soluble, and visible sheens were absent within a day or two. Therefore, the "surface response" of placing hydrophobic oil skimming booms did not contain the MTBE, and a large volume likely diluted and dispersed within the channel. It is unlikely that standard "oil spill" responses will attenuate MTBE, and this research will provide the Port of Houston stakeholders with data to assist in the short and long term response.<br/><br/>The broad objective of the proposed work is to characterize how the microbial community responds to MTBE contamination in marine sediment, and to identify specific microbial processes that will attenuate MTBE with or without engineering intervention. This is the first time a spill can be tracked from its inception, and the data will assist in all future efforts related to both MTBE remediation and high volume spill response. The specific objectives are to: 1) use metagenomic sequencing and high throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing to determine both the shifts in microbial populations, as well as microbial activity related to the MTBE spill, and 2) quantify the native MTBE attenuation rates, and identify processes that can increase the rate and extent of biodegradation. These objectives will be met by testing the following hypotheses: 1) The microbial community will shift in response to MTBE and be dominated by operable taxonomic units previously identified in MTBE-degrading enrichment cultures and sediment incubations; and, 2) Sulfate-reducing microorganisms will dominate all MTBE degrading microbial reactions. The research will use high throughput sequencing of microbial DNA extracted from marine sediment in the Port of Houston to characterize the shift amongst microbial populations as they respond to MTBE contamination. In addition, the PI will use standard anoxic batch incubations to determine the rate and extent of MTBE degradation, and the projected pathway of biodegradation by analyzing known intermediates such as tert-butyl alcohol and tert-butyl formate. All anoxic incubation techniques have been previously reported and will be standard anoxic, glass serum bottles sealed with a butyl rubber stopper and sampled with anoxic-gas flushed syringe and needle setups. The proposed activity will be felt at the responder and practitioner levels. These data can and will be used to assist all future engineering responses to large MTBE spills. In addition, the basic scientific data can be used to identify specific microbial populations that respond to and possibly degrade MTBE.
This project aims to accelerate the deployment of security measures for cyber-physical systems (CPSs). A framework is proposed that combines anomaly identification approaches, which emphasizes on the development of decentralized cyber-attack monitoring and diagnostic-like components, with robust control countermeasure to improve reliability and maintain system functionality. Within this framework, the investigators will (1) implement hybrid observers and active attack detection methods exploiting system vulnerabilities; and (2) develop and integrate cyber-attack control countermeasure at the physical system level to guarantee functionality and resiliency in the presence of identified and unidentified threats. Specifically, this project focuses on applications to connected vehicle (CV) systems where vehicles are capable of sharing information via dedicated short range communication network, with the goal of improving fuel efficiency and avoiding collision. The project's final objective would be to create a cyber-secure vehicle connectivity paradigm that incorporates cyber-attack detection algorithms and executes integrated fault-tolerant countermeasures at the vehicle level to support vehicle system resiliency and accelerate the future commercialization of automated vehicles. The research solutions of this project will impact safety, security and reliability of networked CPSs by helping accelerate the adoption of threat identification and attack resilient control countermeasures at the system and network level. The specific application to connected and automated vehicles should lead to a future market acceptance of these vehicle technologies with a potential improvement in traffic conditions, vehicle and personal safety, and energy consumption.<br/><br/>This project involves interdisciplinary research in cyber security for the development of more secure, scalable and reliable future networked CPSs. It proposes to conduct fundamental research on a model-based computational strategy that includes: 1) implement advanced threat models in a hybrid systems framework; 2) identify system and communication vulnerabilities especially in the dedicated short range communication network (DSRC) for CVs; 3) derive hybrid observer based cyber-attack detection algorithms based on stochastic quantized models and event triggered estimation; 4) establish active attack detection methods based on system vulnerabilities; 5) develop control counter measures for each CPS based on game theory and robust control methods; 6) derive control algorithms against malicious agents in the CV to avoid vehicle collisions; 7) develop computationally fast and distributed algorithms for the above six objectives; and 8) evaluate through simulation and experimental validation the capabilities and impact on the vehicle of the proposed strategies.
This grant supports the eighth annual "Graduate Student mini-Conference in Computational Mathematics" which will be held at Clemson University on February 5 and 6, 2016. Topics covered in the conference consist of recent advances in the theory and implementation of numerical methods for partial differential equations, including multiphase flow, porous media, numerical methods for stochastic PDEs, turbulence, fluid dynamics, climate simulation and PDE constrained optimization. Aside from one plenary speaker, all talks will be given by graduate students. <br/><br/>Approximately twenty graduate students from Clemson, Virginia Tech, the University of Pittsburgh, Auburn University, the University of South Carolina, Florida State University, the University of Tennessee, and Emory University will present scientific research talks involving mathematical modeling in science and engineering, and rigorous analysis and efficient implementation of numerical methods for the modeling equations. The conference organizers strongly encourage participation of under-represented groups, and it is expected that nearly half of the graduate student speakers will be from an under-represented group. The goals of the conference are to give graduate students an opportunity to give a professional scientific talk, to bring graduate students and researchers (their advisors) together to discuss collaborative research projects, and to exchange new ideas in many challenging research areas.
Data provenance is the ability to track data history including things such as where the data resided, who handled it, and what systems stored, forwarded and processed it. This research builds on the architecture of the digital currency Bitcoin. It develops distributed data ledgers - similar to bookkeeping ledgers - that maintain data history so it can't be manipulated by hackers trying to hide their activities. Data consistency guarantees that everyone gets the right answers about where, who, and what regardless of which ledger is read. This software advances the security of computing systems by making data accountable, especially for online commerce and big data ("the cloud''). It secures forensic information taken from compromised computers for further analysis. It validates whether privacy requirements are being met for medical records. The key outcome is a software prototype that implements the complete system and illustrates the ability to store, maintain, and update provenance information for real data. <br/><br/>A data provenance framework will be designed, prototyped, evaluated and then delivered as an Application Programmer Interface, software library, and distributed service. This work will produce a reusable distributed service architecture achieving scalability by using distributed services that maintain ledger information. The system leverages Bitcoin cryptocurrency by building on Bitcoin's block-chain architecture to maintain provenance metadata securely. It leverages existing tools for provenance data exploration and visualization. Digital signatures from both the server/system as well as the user creates dual information about possession, while distributed ledgers remove control and maintenance of metadata from the user who creates it. The prototype enables research into long-term provenance creation, maintenance, and utilization for workflows in the area of cybersecurity as well studies of how to integrate and secure provenance into existing file systems and network services. Opt-in and passive (involuntary) provenance systems will be enabled using the API, library, and distributed ledgers prototyped, enabling data provenance for systems where needed, notably high assurance cloud computing and scientific workflow systems. The tool can be used to enable reproducibility of published results from archived data and artifacts.
In engineering design, a popular representation taught in mechanical design curricula is "functional modeling." Function has been defined as what a device or system is intended to do or the intentional transformation from inputs to outputs. The function is not what the product is (form), how the product does what it does (behavior), or why the product exists (purpose). However, it does relate to all of these, and thus allows engineers to transition between the problem space and the solution space. Many design tools have been developed based on functional modeling but are not yet ubiquitously found throughout industry. Rather than suggesting new function vocabularies, tools, or methods, this EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project seeks to understand how engineers think about function by studying their behaviors in creating models. To do this, the modeling behaviors of design engineers will be recorded, and models of cognition will be used to explain these behaviors. With this understanding, new computational design tools can be developed in the future. In addition, engineering design education can be enhanced by providing students with better strategies for creating the function models.<br/><br/>It is important to understand how engineers think, reason, and operate on function modeling elements and how these models bridge problem definition and solution exploration. Through experimental protocol studies, the specific modeling patterns (forward chaining, backward chaining, nucleation) and pause patterns (pause before or after elemental instantiation) will be analyzed. The modeling patterns will provide evidence of goal-oriented thinking (backward chaining) or causal reasoning (forward chaining). The pause patterns and frequencies will be used to understand relative importance of function (action of transformation) and flow (things being transformed). Two basic research questions will be explored: Are there modeling behavior patterns to function modeling that are invariant of chosen representation? And can these modeling behavior patterns be used to understand, predict, and explain cognitive models of design activities?
The goal of this project is to enhance the development of students in the fields of coding theory, cryptography, and number theory. Activities with strong vertical integration components are introduced at the undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral levels to improve recruitment, retention, and training of students in these areas, including those from historically black colleges and universities and small colleges in the region, and to provide research growth and facilitate professional development for postdocs and early career faculty. Activities supported by this grant will give broader access to the latest research methods and results in coding theory, cryptography, and number theory, areas replete with theoretical advances and practical applications.<br/><br/>The research problems in this proposal center on automorphic forms and codes, modular forms and algebraic geometry codes, and cryptography and computational number theory. These topics allow entry for students via computation and exploration and offer the opportunity for both theoretical advances and practical applications. Activities in this Research Training Group project include curriculum and condensed research experiences designed to better prepare students transitioning from coursework to research; exam preparation modules to support students entering the graduate school admissions phase as well as those applying for candidacy; and working groups to broaden the research expertise of advanced graduate students and postdocs beyond their dissertation topics in addition to professional development and networking opportunities. The training through research involvement provided by this Research Training Group in Coding Theory, Cryptography, and Number Theory will develop a stronger and more diverse workforce.
This collaborative, EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), research project focuses on a design concept that may allow energy harvesting from waste heat, by converting the heat to electrical energy. The vision of the research is to use heat pipes, in particular so-called oscillating heat pipes (OHP). Inside an OHP, a series of serpentine-arranged mini-channels exist that are partially filled with a working fluid. There has been limited, if any, research in the area of energy-harvesting through the use of heat pipes. Heat pipes provide salient mechanical work within their structure due to vapor expansion and fluid flow. This research aims to harvest this internal work by augmenting the OHP heat transfer to the environment through utilization of a specially designed energy harvesting system that enables generation of electrical work through a piezoelectric effect, namely thermally-actuated piezoelectric transduction (TPT). This research project will contribute to better understanding of the physics and application of TPT, improved understanding of piezoelectric-materials, energy-harvesting using OHPs. This research will bridge research perspectives and approaches from the thermal/fluid sciences and power generation. Potential applications for these devices are numerous, especially for waste heat recovery and/or renewable power generation. The technology and basic science derived can result in: off-grid power generation for communications devices (e.g., third world country cellular phone charging and defense applications), more energy-efficient electronics packaging schemes, and new opportunities for high heat flux thermal energy harvesting. Geothermal temperature gradients may also be exploited for constant, renewable power generation via the implementation of ultra-large OHP/TPT systems or OHP/TPTs aligned in-series. This collaborative project will support both graduate and undergraduate researchers that have been traditionally underrepresented.<br/><br/><br/>The OHP has yet to be investigated as a means to destabilize natural temperature gradients for the purpose of establishing a Stirling cycle, nor has it been investigated as a means for power generation. A unique opportunity for using TPT is atop a flat-plate oscillating heat pipe (OHP) - a device that effectively transfers heat via cyclic phase change of an internal working fluid - giving rise to an oscillatory temperature field on its surface. The research will investigate the use of both TPT and OHPs for combined 1) power generation/energy harvesting, and 2) highly-efficient heat transfer. To accomplish this, a unique energy harvester, which is directly attached to the OHP surface, will be designed and will consist of a micro-sized heat sink, encapsulated gas and suspended, spring-resisted piezoelectric material. An aggressive schedule of well-designed experiments is planned to determine how the effectiveness of TPT depends on OHP and energy harvester design. A highly-coupled set of governing equations will be defined and solved by joining common OHP thermo/fluidic models with the constitutive equations of piezoelectric materials. Numerical multi-physics software will be utilized to simulate the convective air flow in the energy harvester and electricity generation inherent to the proposed method for OHP-integrated TPT. The mechanical response and fatigue of various piezoelectric materials for TPT will be evaluated. Thermoelectricity generation via the proposed OHP/TPT is a unique and potentially transformative approach to enthalpy-to-electricity conversion as the OHP/TPT can efficiently transfer heat from one location to another (with ultra-high thermal conductivity) while also generating power.
This workshop brings together educators and researchers in the fields of Engineering Design and Systems Engineering to assess the state of the art in these fields, identify promising directions for future research, exploit the synergies between the two fields, and strengthen the design and innovation capabilities of practitioners. Additionally, current NSF grantees from both ESD and SYS programs (Engineering and Systems Design; Systems Science) will be able to present posters explaining their work and get feedback from their colleagues and the program director. Participants will identify and discuss past contributions that have had a strong impact on education and practice. and discussed their domains of applicability, their limitations, and what needs to be done to strengthen their future potential and impact. <br/><br/>The main objective of the workshop is to enable the engineering design and systems engineering communities to exchange ideas and find synergies. The workshop will bring together about 150 researchers and divide them in small groups of ten to discuss three specific topics. First, workshop participants will focus on method validation and research methodology. Many design and systems engineering methods, approaches and tools have been suggested in the last forty years. There is a need to take stock, critique, agree on the potentials and limitations of these methods, and define evidence-based approaches to further improve them. A second workshop topic is to determine future research directions and to establish a framework in which these future contributions can be organized. The focus will be on directions that can most affect the ability of engineering and systems designers to innovate and to deal with the increased complexity of products and systems. Third, the education of engineers and of practitioners will be discussed to identify best practices, the right mix between experiential education and lectures, and the critical topics that will provide the breadth and depth required to move the fields forward at the various educational levels.
Excessive energy consumption is a major constraint when designing and deploying the next generation of supercomputers. Minimizing energy consumption of high performance computing requires novel energy-conscious technologies at multiple layers from architecture, system support, and applications. One obstacle that hinders the exploration of these new technologies is the lack of tools and systems that can provide accurate, fine-grained, and real-time power and energy measurement for technology evaluation and verification. <br/><br/>This project bridges the gap by building Marcher, a heterogeneous high performance computing infrastructure equipped with cutting-edge power-efficient accelerators including Intel Many Integrated Cores and Nvidia Graphics Processing Units, power-aware memory systems, hybrid storage with hard disk drives and solid state disks, and high performance interconnects. The Marcher system supports the development of two complementary component-level power measurement tools for major computer components: (i) pluggable Power Data Acquisition Card (PODAC) for direct and decomposed power measurement and (ii) Software Power Meter (SoftMeter) that indirectly estimates the power consumption of systems where direct measurement is not feasible or too costly. <br/><br/>Upon completion of this project, both PODAC and SoftMeter will be made available to a broader community and researchers to establish their own power-aware systems. Marcher will be open to external research groups and provide users with comprehensive and detailed performance and power profiles to aid the research in energy efficient software design and system development.
