This project provides funding to develop HomeSHARE, a community infrastructure for doing research around aging in place that provides the community with access to a network of smart homes with a standard sensor package and the ability to add custom technology as needed for specific studies. Currently, although there is much research interest in using home-based sensors to model mobility and health, setting up these kinds of studies is difficult and there is little infrastructure to support it. This tends to cause duplicate, wasted effort in setting up sites; very small numbers of participating homes, limiting the generality and power of the research; and incompatibilities in the setups used by different teams that make it hard to put different pieces of research together. To address this, the team will create the backbone of a large network of homes that can support research that uses sensed information to predict a number of attributes about older adults at home, including mobility patterns, mental health, hospital readmissions, and energy use. The main activities are to deploy their suite of sensors and other computing technology in a total of 30 volunteers' homes at two partner institutions, and develop software that connects and collects data from the homes. Team members will work carefully with residents of the homes to cover the costs of technologies and address privacy and technical concerns they have. They will also create materials that cover technical, ethical, and training issues that other researchers can use both as client sites to conduct studies using the existing network (for a fee to cover operating costs) and as installation sites who join the network directly by adding their own smart homes. To manage demand for the infrastructure, the team will create a governing board of researchers drawn initially from the awardees' institutions. This board will review the technology needs and applications for studies to ensure that they meet the ethical and research goals of the project. The hope is that through this research, the infrastructure will pay for itself many times over not just in knowledge but in improved health and life quality outcomes for older adults; it will also provide service- and project-based learning opportunities for a number of graduate and undergraduate students.<br/><br/>The network will consist of a number of homes using a standardized technology package to ensure consistent, reliable, and secure data collection and data sharing across the many studies while also addressing privacy and acceptability concerns for participants. It will include a number of window and door sensors, a wearable activity tracker, a tablet computer for communicating with and collecting survey information from residents, a wireless access point and paid internet access, and an in-home server that manages the installed devices and data. The servers will be connected and managed with an enhanced version of the team's existing Piloteur framework for reliable sensor data collection in homes. Piloteur will be extended to support larger-scale deployment and changes in the standard technology package demanded by technology advances and research needs, and will add a layer for storing, securing, and sharing the data using existing open standards. Installation sites will be run by technicians supervised by the research team. The technicians will handle recruiting and communicating with participants as well as deploying and debugging the technology installations in the homes, and participants will be recruited to ensure diversity along demographic factors that should improve generalizability of results. The team will also develop materials to make it easy for other researchers to use and join the network. For those who want to access the existing network for individual studies, they will develop a HomeSHARE Study Packet that includes guidance on study planning and costs, technical aspects of the homes and data, and sample materials from prior studies that have been approved by Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). For those who want to join the network, they will create a HomeSHARE Site Kit that includes information about best practices around recruitment and installation, sample IRB materials for existing sites, and standard budget information useful for writing proposals to join the network. A leadership committee initially composed of researchers from the awardee institutions will oversee project management, including the coordination of studies using the network, the evolution of the standard technology package, the addition of new installation sites to the network, and the administration of the data sharing and costs.
The ADVANCE program is designed to foster gender equity through a focus on the identification and elimination of organizational barriers that impede the full participation and advancement of women faculty in academic institutions. Organizational barriers that inhibit equity may exist in areas such as policy, practice, culture, and organizational climate. The ADVANCE Institutional Transformation (ADVANCE-IT) track supports the development of innovative organizational change strategies within an institution of higher education to enhance gender equity in the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines.<br/><br/>Clemson University will implement TIGERS ADVANCE (Transforming the Institution through Gender Equity, Retention, and Support): a set of policy changes, procedural innovations, and institutional programs to improve the representation and status of women in STEM at Clemson. TIGERS ADVANCE has five goals: (a) transform the culture and improve the campus climate, (b) increase the representation of women in STEM disciplines, (c) ensure equitable workload distribution, (d) enhance faculty mentoring and leadership development, and (e) implement family-friendly policies. The social science research project embedded in the project will focus on chairs' decision making related to service assignments and workload among faculty. <br/><br/>Clemson University's ADVANCE-IT project is grounded in organizational identity theory. This is an innovative approach that envisions fostering individual identification with the university by creating the conditions for fair treatment of and improved institutional support for all faculty. Clemson is the leading STEM education institution in South Carolina, and will work through a regional network of institutions of higher education to communicate findings, provide policy recommendations, and share best practices to ensure recruitment, advancement, and retention of STEM women faculty.
Non-Technical Description<br/>This Research Infrastructure Improvement Track-2 Focused EPSCoR Collaboration (RII Track-2 FEC) proposal is a collaboration between four institutions in South Carolina, Alabama, and New Mexico, namely Clemson University, the University of Alabama Birmingham, the University of New Mexico, and the University of South Carolina. The aim of the project is to extend the uses of the experimental method of optogenetics, which, since its introduction in 2005, has had a transformative impact on neurobiology. This method allows experimenters to activate individual neurons or groups of neurons, with high levels of spatial and temporal control, by flashing light on them. One of the main limitations of standard optogenetics is the inability of visible light to penetrate deep within living tissues. In this project, a system will be developed to allow the use of low-dosage X-rays, rather than visible light, as the activating signal. The project includes multiple opportunities to involve students, especially members of under-represented minority groups. Agreements are in place to host students from Winthrop University and Northern New Mexico College, which serve highly diverse student populations, in existing summer research programs at the research-intensive universities. The project also includes plans for mentoring junior faculty, especially in proposal development.<br/><br/>Technical Description<br/>This multi-disciplinary project involves step-wise development of novel experimental methods. First, radioluminescent nanoparticles (RLPs) will be produced that emit light when exposed to X-rays. The RLPs will be chemically modified to allow specific covalent attachment to a genetically engineered membrane-bound opsin protein expressed in neurons, ensuring close proximity of the two components for efficient transfer of the light stimulus. The system will be tested (for efficacy and the absence of undesired side effects) in cultured cells, then brain slice preparations, and finally in intact animals (rats and mice). RLPs will be introduced into animals by injection into the cerebrospinal fluid, through which the particles may diffuse into the brain. The effects of X-ray exposure on the behavior of immobilized and freely moving animals will then be tested to verify successful activation of neural cells in the motor and auditory cortexes.
This National Science Foundation Research Traineeship (NRT) award to Clemson University will respond to the urgent need for professionals capable of crossing disciplinary boundaries to assess technological and societal risks, to communicate those risks to decision makers, and to devise strategies that improve community resilience to natural or man-made disasters. The last five decades have seen a sharp increase in the frequency and impact of natural hazards and a significantly higher risk of man-made disasters, particularly since 9/11. Predicting and mitigating such extreme events is difficult due to interactions among infrastructure systems with complex, poorly understood feedback loops. Society needs professionals who can conceptualize complex systems where physical, cyber, and human infrastructure systems converge and who can transform this conceptual understanding into reliable computational models that are validated by data. Moreover, these professionals must be equipped with skills to effectively communicate with their peers in other disciplines and with decision and policy makers to ensure cohesion between science and policy. This NRT award will address these challenges through curriculum development, transformation in graduate education, and research with societal impact. The project anticipates training fifty-two (52) MS and PhD students, including twenty-six (26) funded trainees, from a variety of science and engineering disciplines related to model- and data-enabled infrastructure resiliency. <br/><br/>This project envisions a new paradigm of graduate education conducive to training STEM professionals who are transdisciplinary system thinkers capable of crossing disciplinary boundaries and working in a dynamic network of continuously learning individuals and evolving knowledge. It represents a transformation in graduate education through the creation of collaborative research communities with strong peer-learning aspects, resulting in a local scientific community that enables students to learn the ?business? of science (networking, collaboration, communication, etc.). The NRT award will promote an agile, adaptive curriculum structure responsive to the changing needs of students through the development of a modular, personalized training program. It will enhance students? ability to apply academic research to complex, real-world problems with an awareness of societal impacts via a uniquely integrated research, training, and outreach program that studies infrastructure vulnerabilities that disproportionately affect low-income regions. Developed within a logic framework and with a thorough, research-driven evaluation plan, this training program will be reproducible on a larger scale. Student and faculty teams will conduct research in three core model engineering and data science areas: (1) integrating models to models, (2) incorporating data into models, and (3) communicating model predictions to decision makers. Their work in each of these areas will allow them to highlight key model/data science issues, understand how these issues translate to societal impacts caused by vulnerabilities in infrastructure systems, and develop solutions to mitigate damage caused by potential infrastructure vulnerabilities. The research on infrastructure resiliency will result in new approaches for modeling and analyzing coupled systems, enabling scientists and decision makers to come together to better understand interdependent infrastructure systems and their uncertainties.<br/><br/>The NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) Program is designed to encourage the development and implementation of bold, new potentially transformative models for STEM graduate education training. The Traineeship Track is dedicated to effective training of STEM graduate students in high priority interdisciplinary research areas, through the comprehensive traineeship model that is innovative, evidence-based, and aligned with changing workforce and research needs.
Origami is the ancient art of folding paper into decorative shapes and geometries. Over the last several decades, it evolved and became a design framework for many engineering and architecture applications. Examples include deployable space structures, kinetic buildings, self-folding robots, surgery devices, and advanced materials. Origami folding so far has been considered as a static process. People typically focus on its design and geometry, or internal actuation mechanisms that makes the folding autonomous. This award supports a collaborative project that will investigate the fundamental dynamic characteristics of origami folding. In particular, the research will explore how to harness the extraordinary properties of origami for applications like vibration isolation at low frequency, recoverable impact absorption, and impulsive actuation. Furthermore, the research will produce design tools that can generate sophisticated folding patterns and assign material properties that are suitable for a wide variety of dynamic performance requirements. The results of this project will become the building blocks for the next generation of air, marine, and land vehicles, intelligent machines and robots, or smart infrastructures, enhancing their functionality, safety and sustainability. The findings will thus advance the aerospace, civil, mechanical, robotics and many other industries. Education and broadening participation plans will focus on student learning and community outreach at various levels and on the enhancement diversity through inclusion in the research activities of members of underrepresented minorities in science and engineering.<br/><br/>This research will, for the first time, rigorously investigate the dynamic characteristics of origami folding and develop its corresponding engineering potentials. Preliminary studies have discovered that origami with generic crease patterns exhibits many attractive properties via folding, such as zero/negative stiffness, pressure dependent multi-stability, and piece-wise stiffness jump. Such surprisingly rich properties and the corresponding dynamic responses will be analyzed in detail based on an equivalent truss-frame model, which transforms the continuous origami structure into a finite degree of freedom system. The truss frame model would also become the basis of a comprehensive synthesis tool that incorporates crease perturbation and optimization, so that the origami can be customized for prescribed dynamic performances. This synthesis tool will bridge the currently separated branches of studies: the mathematical theories of origami design/folding and the engineering of origami based applications. Overall, the new modeling, analysis and synthesis tools for origami dynamics will create a significant intellectual leap and build a strong foundation for many future related research and development efforts.
The functioning of interdependent critical infrastructures such as water, electricity, gas, transportation and telecommunications is highly reliant on sensors, data networks, and control services that are enabled by computer hardware and software systems, which in turn cannot function without electric power and sufficient cooling capacity. The interdependency and interconnected nature of these cyber-physical systems has increased the possibility that a minor disturbance in one infrastructure can cascade into a regional outage across several infrastructure systems. The human response to such outages, both on the supply and demand sides, is crucial and mainly influenced by the perception of emerging risk and the ability to take rational decisions. This project is developing a framework for modeling collaborative adaptive capabilities that are driven by human cognitive abilities and preferences in order to minimize the risk of cascading failures across infrastructure systems. The cyber-physical-psychological interplay investigated in this project will have widespread benefits to infrastructure managers, emergency response teams and policy makers enabling them to more effectively deal with emerging crises. This project also offers inter-disciplinary research opportunities for undergraduates and underrepresented students in addition to graduate student mentoring.<br/><br/>The research objective is to advance real-time predictive capabilities of cascading failures across interdependent critical infrastructures by aligning the simulation model architecture with human adaptive preferences to enable rational decision making in the face of emerging unprecedented risks. Three interconnected tasks will be undertaken to achieve this objective: (1) the cognitive abilities and adaptation preferences of infrastructure control room operators (and organizations they represent) will be modeled using cognitive task analysis techniques; (2) an integrated real-time simulation model for electricity-gas-water networks will be developed through time-synchronization of individual dynamic simulation models using a system-in-the-loop framework; and (3) the capabilities of computational intelligence techniques such as cellular computational networks in predicting near-future system states will be evaluated. Particular attention will be paid to the ability of infrastructure operators to visualize an emerging threat through the developed model architecture and embedding their adaptive preferences in the predictive modeling framework to rationalize response decision making. This project will advance understanding of both spatial and temporal extents of cascading failures through continuous learning of the simulation model using real-time monitoring data from SCADA systems. With advancements on several fronts, the research outcomes will contribute to realizing autonomous adaptive control of critical interdependent infrastructures.
Faculty in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines face intensifying pressures in the 21st century, including multiple roles as educator, researcher, and entrepreneur. They typically teach at both the undergraduate and graduate level. They write proposals and secure funding to support students at multiple levels. They mentor undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral scholars. They present and publish their research outcomes in highly rigorous outlets. They are expected to communicate their research to a broad array of audiences such as the scientific community, undergraduate and graduate students, K-12 students and educators, and the general public. Societal needs of their expertise include discovery, innovation, and workforce development. It is critical to provide STEM faculty with the professional development to support their complex roles and to base this development on evidence derived from research. Much research has been focused on STEM faculty development in support of teaching and student-centered learning with less attention on the other aspects of the professoriate in the 21st century. Therefore, the proposed workshop will bring together participants who are scholars, practitioners, policy-makers, industrial partners, and thought-leaders to assemble a research agenda on faculty development focused on the STEM disciplines. <br/><br/>In this project a group of 30 experts will convene at Clemson University for a 1 1/2 day workshop. These experts will participate in a combination of plenary sessions and small group activities to identify the outstanding research questions associated with faculty development and craft a research agenda. The primary outcome of the workshop will be a set of effective STEM faculty development characteristics that can be implemented based on the outcomes of the workshop and explored in future projects. The findings and final report from the workshop will be disseminated through a project website, a collective blog, and presentations at conferences. Widespread dissemination of the report will spur new research on how to best support faculty in their role as educators of future engineers.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating tunable microwave interferometer technology to fill the need for online monitoring of yeast cells and early detection of microbial contamination in fermentation processes. The proposed microwave flow cytometer (µFC) is important because it provides essential information to optimize the fermentation process, improve production yield, monitor microbial contamination, and control product quality in various industries, including the bioethanol fuel, brewing and distilling industries. American companies in these industries support millions of jobs and produce several hundred billion dollars' worth of economic outputs annually. Improving productivity and reducing financial loss caused by microbial contaminations are critical for their continued prosperity and growth. <br/><br/>The microwave flow cytometer has the following unique features: reagent free cell detection and identification, robust operation, and user friendly instrumentation. These features provide the following advantages: low cost operation, online counting of viable and nonviable yeast cells, and early detection of microbial contamination when compared to the leading competing technologies in the market space, such as optical density (OD) detection, radio-frequency biomass sensing, microscopy based cell counting, staining based viability evaluation, and chemical reaction based yeast activity monitoring.<br/><br/>This project will result in a proof-of-concept demonstration of microwave flow cytometer technology for accurately counting yeast cells (cells/mL) at high speed, determining yeast physiological state (viability and vitality), and identifying typical wild yeasts and bacteria in typical fermentation processes. A preliminary database of the microwave properties and signatures of these microorganisms will be obtained. This project will address the following knowledge and technology gaps: the microwave properties and signatures of typical fermentation yeasts and bacteria, the appropriate µFC frequencies for individual yeast cell and bacteria detection and differentiation, and the techniques for the design, fabrication and operation of microwave flow cytometers. <br/><br/>In addition, personnel involved in this project, including undergraduate and graduate students, will receive innovation experience through characterizing the microwave properties of yeast cells and identifying their signatures. The students will receive technology translation experience through developing user friendly microwave flow cytometer instruments. They will also receive entrepreneurship experience through close interactions with the industrial partners of the project.<br/><br/>This project engages Ferm Solutions and Wilderness Trail Distillery in Danville, KY to provide test environment and commercialization guidance in this technology translation effort from research discovery toward commercial reality.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating multimodal membranes towards commercialization to fill the market need for products that increase purification speeds during biologics drug discovery and preclinical research and development efforts. The multimodal membranes are important because they will help to get biologics to market faster where they are needed to service the large and growing population of patients with long-term, chronic conditions such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases, and autoimmune disorders. The project will result in research-scale, cation-exchange multimodal membrane chromatography (CEX-MMC) column prototypes. This CEX-MMC column has the following unique features: rapid purification of biologics, tolerance of feedstock ionic strength, high biologics binding capacity, and disposability. These features increase productivity and decrease purification costs of biologics by reducing processing times and number of steps, the costs of consumables, and fixed capital expenses when compared to the leading competing chromatography columns in this market space. Market entry will result from use of these products in research and early stage development laboratories, where purification speed is essential and customers are willing to try new technologies.<br/><br/>This project addresses remaining technology gaps as it translates from research discovery toward commercial application. The first generation CEX-MMC developed in the NSF lineage award demonstrated unprecedented protein binding capacity at high ionic strength. Dynamic binding capacity results showed that the CEX-MMC column has high productivity; however, protein binding kinetics must be improved. In this project, new membrane coatings will be designed to enhance protein binding kinetics. In addition, nearly all performance data have been collected using pure-component protein solutions and low titer cell culture supernatant, and almost no work has been done to quantify biological activity of the product or removal of aggregates and other impurities. In this project, antibody media will be prepared using commercial cell lines and used to collect these essential performance data. Two biopharmaceutical companies have committed to collaboration for assessing the performance of the prototypes using industry representative process parameters and monoclonal antibody feed streams. Evaluation of protein recovery, purity, and removal of protein aggregates will be measured following the CEX-MMC column purification step. These are critical performance measures that need to be determined for the Minimally Viable Product (MVP) prior to commercialization. <br/><br/>Strategic commercialization and educational plans are designed to validate remaining parts of the business model canvas and create new networks among inventors, entrepreneurs, potential investors and potential customers. Broader impacts also include training graduate and undergraduate students to better understand technology commercialization and entrepreneurship and pursue careers developing new purification technologies for biomanufacturing. Graduate and undergraduate students will attend lectures on technology commercialization held at CUBEInC, Clemson University's life science incubator. A collateral benefit of these lectures is that they will give all project personnel regular opportunities for direct communication with business leaders; entrepreneurs; and potential partners, customers, and investors in the life sciences. Students also will complete a course on technology commercialization designed for engineering students. MBA students will advance understanding of the market value, space, potential customers, and competition landscape and seek collaborations for launch with selected industry partners; and evaluate potential distribution channels and estimate the associated costs. The team will use this knowledge continually to refine the overall strategy for translation of the research discoveries onto a path towards commercialization.
Household Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices are intended to collect information in the home and to communicate with each other, to create powerful new applications that support our day-to-day activities. Existing research suggests that users have a difficult time selecting their privacy settings on such devices. The goal of this project is to investigate how, why and when privacy decisions of household IoT users are suboptimal, and to use the insights from this research to create and test a simple single user interface that integrates privacy settings across all devices within a household. This interface will have a flexible set of privacy profiles that fits a wide range of privacy preferences and also helps US companies to comply with EU privacy regulations when they operate in the European market.<br/><br/>Unlike existing privacy research, which assumes that users employ limited but essentially rational decision-making practices, this project aims to understand consumers' actual decision processes. In this way we can improve theories about privacy decision making using part-worth utility mapping and process tracing (including eye-tracking). The results of these efforts are used to develop a data-driven set of privacy profiles that cover the privacy preferences of most users. These profiles are then integrated into a privacy management interface (an open-source contribution to an existing IoT management platform) that does not overload users with information and control, but instead leverages their existing decision processes and avoids their biases.
Threats to scientific instruments and data that are accessible via the Internet are ubiquitous. The SouthEast SciEntific Cybersecurity for University REsearch (SECURE) project helps protect the National Science Foundation's investments in scientific research while providing scientists with tools to safeguard intellectual property and ensure data integrity. The project team provides education, training, and selected cybersecurity services to NSF-funded researchers across the Southeast. The team is multidisciplinary, comprised of cybersecurity experts (both research and practitioner), scientists, and experts in communication. Team members are located in South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi, with strong representation from Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU). This program raises investigators' awareness of their essential role in creating a secure and trustworthy cyberspace and offers concrete assistance in risk assessment, vulnerability testing, and mitigation tailored to NSF-funded scientists? workflow and program size. Through past collaborations, the team is well positioned to leverage both national and regional cybersecurity organizations and programs to effectively reach the target audience.<br/><br/>SouthEast SECURE impacts the region by raising cybersecurity awareness; providing concise training, assessment, tools and one-on-one help; and assisting in preparation of select cybersecurity metrics. Student interns are conducting many of these activities by means of practicum-based deployment and support, thus developing capabilities in the next generation of cyber professionals. An online survey of NSF-funded investigators in the region will be conducted to learn about their primary cybersecurity challenges and concerns. Training is then tailored to provide concrete and practical assistance in how to do right-sized risk assessment and mitigation. A "toolkit" is provided to test and validate local cybersecurity, and measures of cybersecurity are created and field-tested. The team?s approach facilitates communication between research faculty and university IT/Data Security staff. A long-term goal is building communities with common interests in cybersecurity and a commitment to helping others; and building connections with other regions and with national centers and programs.
As data-intensive science becomes the norm in many fields of science, high-performance data transfer is rapidly becoming a standard cyberinfrastructure requirement. To meet this requirement, an increasingly large number of university campuses have deployed Science DMZs. A Science DMZ is a portion of the network, built at or near the edge of the campus or laboratory's network, that is designed such that the equipment, configuration, and security policies are optimized for high-performance scientific applications rather than for general-purpose computing. This project develops a secure and resilient architecture called SciGuard that addresses the security challenges and the inherent weaknesses in Science DMZs. SciGuard is based on two emerging networking paradigms, Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV), both of which enable the granularity, flexibility and elasticity needed to secure Science DMZs. <br/><br/>Two core security functions, an SDN firewall application and a virtual Intrusion Detection System (IDS), coexist in SciGuard for protecting Science DMZs. The SDN firewall application is a software-based, in-line security function running atop the SDN controller. It can scale well without bypassing the firewall using per-flow/per-connection network traffic processing. It is also separated from the institutional hardware-based firewalls to enforce tailored security policies for the science-only traffic sent to Science DMZs. The virtual IDS is an NFV-based, passive security function, which can be quickly instantiated and elastically scaled to deal with attack traffic variations in Science DMZs, while significantly reducing both equipment and operational costs. In addition to these functions, the researchers also design a cloud-based federation mechanism for SciGuard to support security policy automatic testing and security intelligence sharing. The new mechanisms developed in this project are robust, scalable, low cost, easily managed, and optimally provisioned, therefore substantially enhancing the security of Science DMZs. This research encourages the diversity of students involved in the project by active recruitment of women and other underrepresented groups for participation in the project. The project has substantial involvement of graduate students in research, and trains promising undergraduate students in the implementation and experiments of the proposed approach. Moreover, the project enhances academic curricula by integrating the research findings into new and existing courses.
Recent advancements in the Linux operating system have enabled widespread use of lightweight host-based virtualization, or containers. Containers can be used to deploy workloads in High Performance Computing (HPC) and warehouse computing environments. However, research has shown that containers can have adverse effects on the latency of the application's network traffic, a metric that many HPC applications are sensitive to. This project addresses limitations of prior research that focus primarily on the mean latency in HPC applications but do not fully analyze variation in network latency as a factor in application performance. The project is to study, predict, and manage variation in network latency and its impact to HPC and warehouse computing application performance. Results will have impact to the sustained performance of HPC and warehouse scale applications, an area of national interest. <br/><br/>Results from this project will give insight and direction to new research in the characterization, prediction, and management of variation of latency in highly parallel systems. Research tasks include studying the tradeoffs of host-managed network traffic versus application-managed network interfaces in the context of containers, identifying the granularity of virtualization appropriate for high speed communication between workers in different computing platforms and how these choices affect message latency variation, and studying the effects of zero-copy messaging between Docker containers in combination with other network communication technologies. This project will develop a thorough characterization and analysis of the mechanisms for managing latency that have become available with recent technologies. The project studies technologies that are not yet widely used in HPC applications, including Docker containers in combination with SR-IOV, DPDK, Ethernet, and InfiniBand. Experimental design and testing of environment configurations and application resource allocation strategies will lead to the development and validation of descriptive and predictive models of the variation in network latency for the selected technologies, and will provide guidance for the development of best practice recommendations for configuration of container networking.<br/><br/>The project, with a focus on variation in network latency, lays the groundwork for a larger project to develop an experimental platform and framework for the evaluation of the use of emerging technologies in HPC and warehouse computing systems. Funds will support two Ph.D. students at Clemson University in South Carolina, an EPSCoR state.
Many nation states restrict citizen access to information over the Internet by analyzing Internet users' traffic and then blocking traffic deemed controversial or antithetical to the views of the nation state. This project explores an alternative end-to-end network architecture that removes the vulnerability of citizens to traffic analysis. The researchers propose alternative Internet architecture and protocol designs, assesses the impact of such designs on Internet stakeholders, and provide assessment methods for correctness, performance, and scalability of the alternative design. The project broadly impacts multiple domains and research communities, from the network security and anti-censorship communities to those who design and run the Internet. Assuring that individuals around the world can easily access information over the Internet is one of the core, driving principles behind this project.<br/><br/>Traffic analysis uses packet meta-data and side-channels to infer information about communication sessions, encrypted or not, running over a network. Proxy services make traffic analysis difficult by inserting intermediate nodes between packet source and destination, but their success is limited. They can be detected and blocked. The core concept binds communications sessions to dynamic, short-lived, and seemingly random Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. This fundamentally impacts multiple aspects of the Internet: the domain name system (DNS), IP addressing/routing, and packet forwarding. This EAGER project will explore the solution space (scope, capabilities, impact), identify strategies for realization, and develop a prototype to assess key properties of the approach. The project's intellectual merit includes host and network methods based on ephemeral, pseudo-random IP addresses, IPv6 addressing and inter-domain routing, and SDX architecture/functions.
The virtual reality field experiences (VRFE) application is a Unity-based virtual reality learning environment that uses an Android smartphone along with a Google Cardboard viewer or other commercial virtual reality viewer. The pilot content module, Grand Canyon Field Experience (GCFE), provides an interactive virtual learning environment along with curriculum and content support materials. Given that introductory geoscience courses are one of the primary STEM courses taken as a natural science elective by undergraduate students across the United States, the Grand Canyon VRFE module alone could provide a consistent customer demand. The VRFE application creates an easily distributable, immersive, virtual field experience related to a physical location. Thus there is a wide potential market across educational institutions, which could be further expanded to K-12 settings and training programs for industrial professionals. The societal impact of this technology is its exploration of new, improved uses for virtual reality as a tool for learning. The commercial impact of this project is as an educational application that engages students in immersive, interactive activities in a virtually-simulated context for learning. This I-Corps L project intends to engage in customer discovery to determine the potential for scaling and sustaining the application.<br/><br/>Field trips can be an effective tool for instructors to create situated opportunities for learning that are contextualized in a particular environment. Field experiences in the physical world can impact students' perceptions and knowledge related about subject matter. From pre-kindergarten to graduate education, as institutional resources are diminishing for effectively engaging large numbers of students in physical world field experiences, create effective alternatives are needed. For large universities with hundreds of students enrolled in introductory science courses, instructors are often unable to provide engaging field experiences due to a range of institutional constraints, including financial resources. Virtual field experiences, while understandably different from physical world experiences, also provide effective learning environments, including being useful for students who have access or mobility issues. The benefits of virtual field experiences related to increasing availability of and engagement with affordable, effective alternatives to physical field experiences are valuable affordances that invite ongoing research and development.
The significance of the proposed project is that it will bring together computer science education and education researchers who have completed successful projects of various kinds, and synthesize the knowledge they have gathered in terms of published guidelines for educational research, i.e., "Common Guidelines for Education Research and Development" as published jointly by the US Department of Education and NSF in 2013. While this document is detailed in general information it lacks guidelines specific to a particular discipline. These workshops will focus on providing the computer science education community detailed examples of computer science education projects which incorporate Education Research. These examples will serve as guidelines to the computer science education community.<br/><br/>The goals of the project, to understand, synthesize, and propagate the essence of successful education efforts, will be achieved through two focused workshops associated with major CS education conferences. The first workshop in 2016 will be more formative in nature and help develop ideas, projects, and panels for discussion at the second workshop. The second workshop in 2017 will focus on engagement with potential proposers of computing education research and will promote their adherence to the guidelines and their development of well identified educational research questions and evaluation mechanisms appropriate for the type of proposed research.
This EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project will focus on human-infrastructure interactions within future smart cities. Specifically, the goal of this project is to develop a conceptual network optimization framework that exploits user feedback from crowd-sourced data. The next-generation ubiquitous traffic sensors, such as fixed traffic detectors, mobile sensors with location-based services (e.g., Google traffic), and traffic active mobile sensors (e.g., Waze), have been used to retrieve large and diverse geo-located and time-stamped data. In addition, data crowd-sourced from social media and mobile applications are increasingly available for understanding human mobility. On the other hand, existing network optimization models in transportation were largely developed without considering human behavior. This project will explore methods to design an electric vehicle wireless charging network of the future. Such a charging network will provide non-stop, in-motion charging particularly suitable for urban environments. For many users, wireless charging will be an opportunistic, emergency charging choice that supplements distributed charging resources at home, the workplace, and at retail facilities. Traditional network optimization models, which implicitly assume that charging demand is distributed and a given, may not result in a user-satisfactory solution in such tasks as finding the best routes that contain wireless charging network segments. The PIs aim to overcome this deficiency by developing: (i) user feedback-driven network optimization models that explicitly account for user satisfaction, and (ii) fast and scalable optimization methods for real-world, large-scale problem implementations that efficiently and effectively utilize crowd-sourced information. The results of this research will include a "living lab" assessment in which students will develop a mobile app to collect feedback about the route with wireless charging network segments. This feedback will be analyzed and incorporated in optimization models.<br/><br/>This approach will be implemented using a combination of large-scale machine learning and optimization solvers. The mobile app will provide basic anonymized information about users, trip types, and route feedback through secured channels. These data and open information about all road segments will be used to explore relevant latent factors and create cost-sensitive support vector machine based classifiers to identify the most suitable segments for wireless charging network and adjust the optimization-based network design. Rather than using traditional, computationally expensive optimization solvers, the PIs will pursue an algebraic multigrid-based approach to cope with large-scale, real-world problems, and leverage their support vector machine solvers.
With this award, the Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry Program in the Division of Chemistry is funding Professor Sourav Saha of Florida State University to develop new strategies and receptors that can not only discriminate anions on the basis of their electronic properties, but also capture and release the target anions in a reversible fashion under the influence of electrons and light. Anions and cations are ubiquitous, and have diverse structures, properties, and functions. Some play important roles in biological, chemical, industrial, and environmental processes, while others are toxic and pollutants. For these reasons, it is important to regulate these charged species with high precision and selectivity. Selective ion receptors can provide scientists with systems that are recyclable, reusable, and better suited for applications in environmental protection. The graduate, undergraduate, and postdoctoral researchers working on this project will gain an array of scientific knowledge and technical expertise, from synthesis to molecular recognition. Integrated outreach activities are directed at local schools, the public library, and at students from Florida Agricultural and Mining University, an HBCU institution. Through these efforts, Dr. Saha plans to engage young and underrepresented students in hands-on experiments to motivate them to consider the pursuit of careers in science.<br/><br/>The goal of this research is to develop new strategies to (i) discriminate anions on the basis of their electronic properties, (ii) capture anions and cations simultaneously in a cooperative fashion, and (iii) bind and release ionic guests in a reversible fashion under the influence of electrons and light. To discriminate anions in aprotic solvents, the Saha research team is exploiting the ability of ð-acidic naphthalenediimide (NDI) receptors to accept electron(s) from strong Lewis basic anions, form charge-transfer complexes with less basic anions, and engage in anion?ð and CH···anion interactions with charge-diffuse anions. To overcome the ion-pairing effect that weakens the binding interactions between ionic guests and receptors, tweezers-shaped, ditopic ion-pair receptors are being developed by tethering two terminal NDI units with folded linkers that can bind cations. The hypothesis is that cation binding at the linker units should facilitate anion binding between the two overlapping NDI units and vice versa. During biphasic extractions, these ditopic receptors should selectively extract salts that contain less hydrated charge-diffuse anions from aqueous to organic medium, while the more hydrated hard anions should remain in water. NDI-based cationic metallacycles are being constructed to capture large charge-diffuse anions inside their cavities through anion/NDI interactions. The metal ion corners should mitigate the ion-pairing effects. The reversible redox chemistry of the NDI units and the tendency of their reduced forms to expel anions offer a new approach to release the captured anions from these receptors upon chemical, electrochemical, and/or photochemical reduction.
