The objective of the EAGER research is to explore the feasibility of developing a novel photoacoustic chemical and biological sensor utilizing vacuum enclosed piezoresistive GaN microcantilever as a highly sensitive ultrasonic sensing element. The sensor will be utilized to perform detection in both air and liquid media and can potentially offer: (i) detection of surface adsorbed or deposited analytes at femtogram level with high specificity, and (ii) unique label-free detection of bio-analytes in a liquid medium. Ultra high sensitivity of the sensor will be attained using a resonant GaN microcantilever enclosed in vacuum, with integrated AlGaN/GaN heterostructure field effect transistor as a highly sensitive deflection transducer. To attain the basic objective of this project, the following tasks will be performed:(i) Design of the photoacoustic sensor through theoretical modeling and finite element simulations; (ii) Fabrication of the piezoresistive microcantilever and integration of microfluidic channels; (iii) Packaging and electromechanical characterization of the sensor; and (iv) Performance evaluation of the sensor for analyte detection in air and liquid media Piezoresistive GaN microcantilevers will be fabricated using standard photolithographic process and packaged in high vacuum to achieve high resonance quality factor. For detection in air, surface deposited or adsorbed analyte near the cantilever base will be exposed to IR radiation to perform highly sensitive and selective detection, based on photoacoustic waves generated in solid. For detection in liquid, a PDMS based analyte reservoir connected to microfluidic channels will be patterned near the cantilever base, which will allow analyte flow and combined spectroscopic and multimodal detection of blood cells. The fabrication of the microcantilever sensors will be performed at the Georgia Tech Nanofabrication Facility, while the sensor packaging will be done in the PI's lab at USC. <br/><br/>Intellectual Merit:<br/>The proposed EAGER research will focus on validating novel sensing concepts that can lead to the development of high-performance and versatile sensors with much superior characteristics compared to the state-of-the-art sensing technologies for analytes in air and liquid media. Firstly, the proposed piezoresistive microcantilever sensors is expected to exhibit orders of magnitude higher sensitivity compared to the state-of-the-art Si cantilevers due to the unique piezoelectric properties of III-V Nitride semiconductors. Secondly, the innovative concept of vacuum enclosure of the resonant microcantilever sensor coupled with photoacosutic sensing, will further enhance the sensitivity by orders of magnitude due to quality factor enhancement, while completely eliminating cantilever degradation, which is a major challenge for cantilever sensors utilizing functionalization layers for detection. Thirdly, integration of microfluidic channels and functionalization layers to concentrate the analytes near the cantilever base will minimize signal loss, and tremendously increases signal-to-noise ratio, thereby eliminating the need for acoustic focusing and confinement using a macroscopic cell, which is a significant drawback for current state-of-the-art photoacoustic sensors. Overall, the EAGER research can have a transformative impact on the science and technology of piezoresistive cantilever sensors and photoacoustic sensing methodologies, spurring aggressive development of next generation of miniaturized and high performance photoacoustic sensors.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts:<br/>This highly interdisciplinary project is anticipated to result in the development of novel photoacoustic sensors with potential applications in the diverse fields of defense, homeland security, environmental monitoring, drug discovery, implantable sensors, and disease diagnosis and prognosis. As a part of the educational and outreach activities, the PI would involve at least one undergraduate and one high school student to work on this project every year throughout its duration. Participation of the project activities would provide broad interdisciplinary training of the graduate student involved. The PI would integrate research results in a graduate course, and disseminate them through conference participation and various websites.
South Carolina (SC) is rapidly expanding into aviation, automotive, and advanced manufacturing, and regional employers are increasingly in need of well-educated technicians who are familiar with the specialized demands of a new generation of manufacturing jobs. The Center for Aviation and Automotive Technological Education Using Virtual E-Schools (CA2VES) and the state's 2-year institutions are creating opportunities to improve technician and STEM education and increase workforce preparedness for a large and diverse population of SC students. CA2VES brings together global and regional industry and educational partners to develop and disseminate such Digital Learning Tools (DLTs) as digital curricula, e-learning, simulations and virtual reality (VR) modules. DLTs have already given students greater academic control over time, place, path and pace, and provided students with the skills required by the rapidly expanding automotive and aerospace industries in the region. <br/><br/>The CA2VES team will continue to lead the design and development of DLTs working with industries and employers, and collaborate with Co-PIs (Florence-Darlington Technical College, Greenville Technical College, Spartanburg Community College and the SCATE Center) and additional ATE Centers to evaluate the effectiveness of DLTs in technician education programs. CA2VES and partners will design and execute recruitment campaigns to attract and engage underserved populations (specifically women, minorities and students from rural areas). CA2VES will also partner with 2-year institutions and high schools to customize and modularize DLTs, field test new modules and conduct ongoing research evaluating how others replicate and use CA2VES DLTs. The team will assess the improved pedagogical effectiveness of its work in the areas of innovations in teaching and learning, technology integration and workforce development. Additionally, the Center will provide rigorous evidence-based research in VR development for technician education and become a sustainable resource.
This award provides support for participation in three conferences on number theory held at institutions in the Southeast in 2015 and 2016. The 24th Palmetto Number Theory Series meeting will be held at Emory University in Atlanta, GA in September 2015, and the 25th Palmetto Number Theory Series meeting will be held at Clemson University in Clemson, SC in December 2015. The 29th Southeast Regional Meeting on Numbers will be held in the spring of 2016. These conferences are open and free to all participants, who include mathematicians of all levels: undergraduates, graduate students, post-docs, and junior and senior faculty. The meetings provide a valuable opportunity for regional graduate students and for faculty at primarily undergraduate institutions, who may have few or no other opportunities for professional travel. The meetings will continue to attract a demographically diverse participant base, including women and members of other groups underrepresented in mathematics. More details for the 2016 29th Southeast Regional Meeting on Numbers, including exact dates, a list of speakers, the location, and registration information will be posted on the conference websites as it becomes available:<br/><br/>http://www.math.sc.edu/~boylan/seminars/pantshome.html <br/>http://www.math.clemson.edu/~kevja/SERMON/<br/><br/>Each of the conferences features several invited talks, given by number theorists based outside the region, ranging from prominent researchers to graduate students. Speakers will be chosen to represent a broad range of active research interests within number theory. Each meeting will also feature contributed talks given by participants from within the region. The primary goal of these meetings is to provide the number theory community in the Southeast the opportunity to hear about recent research in number theory. The meetings attract prominent number theorists based outside the region, and provide regional mathematicians, particularly graduate students and junior faculty, with an opportunity to speak about their research. The meetings inspire collaboration and broaden the scope of existing research interests within the general subject of number theory.
This Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our Future (DMREF) grant is focused on the development of a new integrated multi-scale approach incorporating modeling and experimentation on sintering-induced deformation processes taking into account anisotropy phenomena. Sintering-induced anisotropy, one of the most fundamental aspects of powder processing, is poorly understood and cannot be predicted properly by the existing models and approaches. It is also technologically very important since many powder-processing approaches induce anisotropy. The project includes the study of the complex interplay between processing conditions and anisotropic microstructure-constitutive properties which will provide fundamental, basic knowledge and a novel practical approach to design and optimize the manufacturing of advanced ceramic and metal systems with programmable macroscopic characteristics and microstructure. <br/><br/>This research intends to establish a new methodology to optimize the sintering of a broad range of complex material systems including multilayered solid oxide fuel cells. The developed concepts can be used to design the processing of other multilayered material systems (e.g. sensors, actuators, solar cell packaging) or processing under applied stresses (e.g. hot-pressing, sinter-forging). The project also contributes to the general framework of processing approaches which are enhanced by experimentally validated simulations and which significantly accelerate the development of new materials and processes. The teams from the two universities will work closely with collaborators from the industry to continuously test and refine the simulation approaches. Co-PIs will also collaborate with researchers from the Sandia National Laboratories in the development of the multi-scale simulation algorithms. This integrated, collaborative research program provides a unique high quality learning opportunity for students.
This project will investigate the use of virtual reality technologies to create virtual field experiences for use in introductory geosciences classes. Although field experiences are an important aspect of geoscience education, there are few opportunities to provide physical world experiences to many undergraduate students due to access, logistical, and financial constraints. Thus, geoscience instructors must develop novel teaching and learning opportunities that closely approximate the information, elements, and environment students would find on a physical, in-person field study. The types of virtual experiences developed through this project, while different from their physical corollaries, will give learners the chance to engage with learning content and activities through multi-modal interactions in the virtual environment. The use of virtualization tools will create opportunities that give geoscience educators access to interactive, contextualized teaching materials, and learners access to a space for exploration and discovery. The development of virtual reality field experiences will also create a pathway for a diverse audience of students to encounter the earth sciences, particularly those from underrepresented groups, resource-limited institutions, and majors traditionally not directly involved in the earth sciences. Enhancing access to educational opportunities for these groups will aid in developing the engaged, diverse and earth-science literate population that is needed to address societal needs in a complex and changing world.<br/><br/>The project will develop a virtual reality field-trip of the Grand Canyon that will be accessible to a wide audience in diverse educational settings. Through the experience, students will develop core geoscience concepts as they find and evaluate evidence that will help them piece together the geologic history of the region. In the virtual experience, students will apply their knowledge of rock and mineral properties, build their understanding of spatial and temporal relationships between Earth processes, learn how these relationships are recorded in the rock, and ultimately synthesize their observations into a coherent geologic story that they will encapsulate in lay terms as a virtual brochure for the Canyon. The project will also develop a virtual reality toolbox for earth science educators that will facilitate the future development of additional virtual field activities. The project will utilize new innovations in the field of virtual reality, e.g., Oculus Rift technology, to provide geoscience educators the means to give every student a first-person virtual field experience. The virtual field experiences will be designed to emphasize key aspects of geoscience learning (i.e., temporal thinking, spatial thinking, earth systems, and field learning) and integrate the 'Big Ideas' in geoscience proposed by the Earth Science Literacy Initiative. The specific learning activities that will be developed in the project are strongly grounded in the existing geoscience education, STEM education, and game-based learning literature and will utilize built-in learning analytics for improved assessment of student learning. By addressing both the affective and cognitive routes to learning, this approach holds promise to increase student engagement and concept retention in the classroom.
Nontechnical Description: The common computer memory uses digital 0 and 1, solely depending on electric voltage. In contrast, a human has the neuromorphic response capability and can alter the decision-making process based on past experiences. Recently, scientists are exploring various materials, particularly oxides, in order to fabricate a man-made computational system with neuromorphic response capability. This research project investigates organic polymers with electrical resistance that depends on geometry factors, expanding the class of materials that can be used as the basic building blocks for neuromorphic computing. Graduate students are trained in this project for interdisciplinary research bridging the fields of polymer science, electronics, and neuroscience. In addition, research opportunities are provided to high-school and undergraduate students through the Center for Optical Materials Science and Engineering Technologies (COMSET) Summer Fellows Program and in collaboration with Montessori School of Anderson.<br/><br/>Technical Description: This project focuses on the investigation of non-conjugated polymers with pendant aromatic heterocyclic moieties that exhibit conformationally dependent conductivity and emulating synaptic behaviors. A long-term goal of the project is to develop a polymer-based memristor technology that can be employed in a neuromorphic computation system. The research includes three major tasks: (1) Development of molecular design rules for creating a memrisitor using non-conjugated polymers with pendant carbazole and oxadiazole moieties, as well as monomer and polymer synthesis. The goal is to create a polymer-based memrisitor with a conductive function depending on both voltage and a structural parameter, particularly the rotational aspects and trapping properties of the pendant groups; (2) Measurement of the charge transport properties of the memristors, with the results used to refine the molecular design rules and to improve synthesis methods; (3) Emulation of a series of synaptic behaviors using the polymer-based memristors.
1510790<br/>Clemson<br/>Husson<br/><br/>One future possible source of energy is the energy released when low-salinity waters mix with high-salinity waters, such as when rivers reach the ocean. This "gradient energy" can be harvested through a process called pressure retarded osmosis (PRO). The PRO process involves water transport from a low-salinity source through a semipermeable membrane to a high-salinity draw solution. The objective of this multidisciplinary research and education program is to develop and study advanced thin-film composite (TFC) membranes that are designed for PRO. The proposed research is transformational because it will deliver TFC PRO membranes with high water flux, low reverse salt flux, high apparent power density, and an overall structure that can withstand mechanical stresses generated during operation under high osmotic pressures. These performance and structural characteristics will be achieved by incorporating unique, previously untested nanomaterials into the membrane structure.<br/><br/>Studies will test the hypothesis that incorporation of specific nanomaterials directly into the thin film active layer and as a separate, ultrathin supporting layer will yield a new class of robust PRO membranes with unmatched performance characteristics. The research will provide deep understanding of how chemical functionalization of the membranes and nanomaterial additives impacts their mechanical properties and performance. Investigations will examine the roles of loading and degree of functionalization of nanomaterials on membrane compressive modulus and strength. Performance measurements will use standardized protocols and models to determine water and salt permeability coefficients, structural parameters, and apparent power densities. With this knowledge, the team will be able to design TFC PRO membranes with the desired performance. <br/><br/>The project will integrate education and research aimed at improving public science literacy among individuals living in Upstate South Carolina and Western North Carolina by using entertainment media education and creating social media forums that facilitate discussion of science news. Partnership with a local television program that serves over 800,000 households in the nation?s 36th largest market will ensure that on-air science demonstrations and web-based science videos reach a large and highly diverse audience. It is expected that television promotion of the demonstrations and videos to local school districts will benefit students in the viewing area by illustrating the relevance of science and supporting science learning.
1511051<br/>Amy<br/><br/>Currently, seawater reverse osmosis is the most commonly used desalination technology. Specifically, the blending of reverse osmosis desalinated water with single or multiple treated fresh waters drawn from other sources is a low-cost method to meet the demands of drinking water and to increase the concentration of some desired ions. Therefore, the objective of this project is to conduct a comprehensive and systematic study to examine the formation and speciation of reaction byproducts of disinfection and the toxicity changes of seawater reverse osmosis desalinated waters as a consequence of blending.<br/><br/>This is the first comprehensive research that combines a disinfection byproduct study on the formation, speciation, and factors affecting bromide/iodide incorporation with a toxicology study to determine possible toxicities on mammalian cells. In this study, the PIs propose to investigate: 1) the formation and speciation of brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts in the presence of hydrophilic organic matter (e.g., algal organic matter, wastewater effluent organic matter, natural organic matter) of different origins in treated waters that are likely to be used for blending with seawater reverse osmosis permeate, 2) the effects of pH and temperature on the formation and speciation of brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts, 3) the change in mammalian cell cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of waters from blending, and 4) the ability of total organic halide species and/or other individual brominated/iodinated disinfection byproducts to predict the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of the blended waters based on a multiple regression. The project will be conducted in two phases: Phase 1, which entails a disinfection byproduct study on the formation, speciation, and factors affecting bromide/iodide incorporation under various mixing scenarios and using chlorine and chloramine for post-disinfection (i and ii); and Phase 2, which entails a toxicity study on mammalian cell cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of waters from blending and multiple regression analysis between total organic halide components and experimentally measured water toxicities (iii and iv). Educational components of the project will provide opportunities for undergraduate (e.g., Creative Inquiry Program at Clemson, UIUC WaterCamps program, the UIUC Global Safe Water Institute) and high school student research, including recruitment of underrepresented groups in scientific research.
This PFI: AIR Technology Translation project focuses on translating III-V Nitride piezoresistive microcantilever based neutron detector technology to fill the critical technology gap in the neutron detection area arising out of severe worldwide shortage of He-3. The translated technology has the following unique features: (i) vacuum enclosure of the microcantilever sensors, which will result in highly sensitive detection of nuclear radiation, as well as protection of the sensor from environment and unwanted radiation enhancing sensor reliability; (ii) possibility of using arrays of sensors realized through microfabrication techniques, which can offer imaging capabilities and directionality information; (iii) the usage of bimodal detection technique and two functionalization layers to perform highly efficient and unique detection of neutrons. Thus, it provides exemplary performance, cost savings and efficiency when compared to the leading competing neutron detection technology based on Boron-10 in this market space. The project accomplishes this goal by using a relatively inexpensive material with unique material properties and adopting a design strategy involving the design features mentioned above, resulting in a novel neutron detector prototype. The partnership engages Savannah River National Laboratory to provide guidance in the He-detection market space and other aspects including prototype testing and technology commercialization, as they pertain to the potential to translate the technology along a path that may result in a competitive commercial reality. The potential economic impact is expected to be in several tens of millions of dollars in the next eight years, which will contribute to the U.S. competitiveness in this highly critical neutron detection market space. The societal impact, long term, will be in the creation of high-tech workforce and a safer society with vastly mitigated nuclear related threats.
This research focuses on understanding the digital security and privacy needs of journalists and their sources to evaluate and design communication technologies that better support the fundamental operations of a globally free and unfettered press. Journalists -- along with their organizations and sources -- are known to be high-risk targets for cyberattack. This community can serve as a privacy and security bellwether, motivated to use new technologies, but requiring flexibility and ease-of-use. Many existing secure tools are too cumbersome for journalists to use on a regular basis. Moreover, these tools may lack important security and privacy-protecting features that are needed not only by the large and diverse community that is part of journalistic activity, but by other individuals and groups that may have a harder time recognizing and articulating their needs. By learning about the needs and constraints of the journalism community, this project will identify both technical and training interventions that can improve the daily security and privacy of journalists, the many communities with which they interact.<br/><br/>The researchers will perform in-depth interviews and usability tests with journalists and their sources. The insights gained will illuminate both the conceptual and technical issues they encounter with respect to cybersecurity. Using the specific risk- and resource-models relevant to these populations, the researchers will propose, prototype, and begin evaluating novel technical solutions to issues like communications metadata, as well as data management, syncing, search and permission controls, and the possibilities of trusted distributed key servers and "disappearing data." The results of this work will lay the groundwork for future technical advances, not only for journalists but also for use by researchers and organizations interested in implementing and testing these tools and processes for other communities.
This team will use ground-based telescopes and computer models to detect and characterize exoplanets in disks around other stars. The team will apply novel techniques to detect gas giant planets that are still in the process of forming. If successful, these results would allow us to connect the initial conditions of the planet-forming environment to the kinds of planets that form. Inherent curiosity about how our own planet came to be attracts students from all backgrounds into STEM disciplines. The students involved with this project will have the opportunity to carry out research at one of the frontiers of modern astrophysics by exploiting data available from state of the art observatories and computational modeling. Previous students involved in this group have applied their experiences to careers in K-12 education, industry, national defense, in addition to more traditional research careers. This project will also provide research-based learning opportunities for students in the South Carolina State University - Clemson University bridge program, actively broadening participation of underrepresented groups in astronomy.<br/><br/>This program has three principal science goals. (1) Search for circumplanetary disks around companions orbiting Herbig Ae/Be stars: generate a uniform atlas of all archival high resolution M-band observations of Herbig Ae/Be, search for variable CO emission indicative of an orbiting companion, and obtain additional observations. (2) Search for dynamical markers of massive substellar companions. (3) Apply this group's thermochemical model to sources with observed OH and CO emission to test the hypothesis that OH primarily arises from the inner rim of circumstellar disks.
A private land conservation tool, conservation easements, have become widely used in the United States over the past thirty years, and their popularity may correspond to tax laws creating incentives for private land conservation in the public interest. This research project will examine how shifting dynamics between conservation easement holders, easement donors/sellers, regional land use pressures, and connections to conserved lands are affecting the spatial pattern, public benefit and ecological integrity of conservation easements in different regions of the United States. These dynamics will be examined at the fine scale; national and regional policy structures will be linked at the land parcel-level. How public input during the conservation easement process affects the spatial use of easements, as well as the neighborhood effects of easements on adjacent and county-level land costs, will be analyzed. Results from this research will be useful to land use planners, both public and private, who will benefit from a better understanding of the conveyance process and the environmental outcomes. Students will be trained in database creation and assessment, strengthening the nation's scientific workforce. <br/><br/>Employing multivariate, spatial overlay, and time-series analyses, the relationship between political and legal factors and conservation easement propagation will be examined. Regional spatial datasets will be combined with the results from county-level easement donor surveys and both fine and coarse filter ecological integrity approaches to assess whether conservation easements whose purpose is to maintain biological integrity have a higher likelihood of contributing to reserve networks in their spatial arrangement than do other conservation easements. Whether this is more likely to occur in areas with public oversight in the easement placement process will be determined. How the environmental outcomes affect the easement decision process will be addressed. Theory will be advanced by examining the geographic effect of the easement tool, and how social factors may influence its use, in a single spatial and quantitative framework. Broader impacts will include better understanding of the complete conservation easement process for planners and land owners and the training of undergraduate and graduate students.
The goal of this project is to develop improved models and numerical methods that advance the state of the art for incompressible fluid flow simulation. The key ideas are the better enforcement of geometric and physical laws in the computer algorithms, building a solid mathematical framework for the models and methods developed, and the devising of algorithms that will allow for efficient implementation on supercomputers. Although the simulation of fluid flow is a critical subtask in a wide spectrum of engineering applications, current tools and techniques are often unreliable and it is not uncommon for state of the art methods to take weeks or months (or possibly never finish with an accurate solution), even with thousands of processors, to perform simulations of flows around a car, through a nuclear reactor, or around part of an airplane. The project aims to develop mathematical prediction models and numerical methods that will provide more accurate solutions in a more efficient manner than state-of-the-art methods.<br/><br/>The PIs will construct efficient methods for incompressible flow simulation by constructing models and methods that better adhere to geometric structure and physical conservation laws than modern methods. The key components are to i) construct novel methods that are efficient and can correctly account for vorticity dynamics, and energy, helicity, and mass conservation -- this will require development of efficient boundary conditions and significant analysis to build a solid mathematical framework; ii) develop more efficient algebraic solvers for these methods that can be used on thousands of processors; iii) large scale testing on benchmark problems as well as on application problems with collaborators. Broader impacts include i) developing efficient methods for simulating high speed incompressible flows, which will improve the design process for a wide spectrum of applications in environmental engineering, in cardiovascular simulations, and in atmosphere and ocean sciences; ii) training graduate and undergraduate students through research involvement; and iii) developing large scale, parallel codes to be made publicly available as part of the deal.II library.
The advancement of science requires the development of new mathematical methods that can rapidly and reliably solve large-scale scientific computing problems. Any modern scientific computing tool and supercomputer must have the ability to effectively (and one hopes optimally) manipulate both the data and parallel computational processes to manage: (a) the load-balancing in parallel computation; (b) data migration between components in a supercomputer; (c) performance optimization; (d) task scheduling; and (e) storage/memory reduction and data compression. These and many other problems (such as electronic chip design and community detection in social networks) can be tackled using a family of mathematical optimization problems called partitioning that are formulated on mathematical models called hypergraphs. However, partitioning of hypergraphs is extremely hard in theory and practice. To tackle it, this research project will develop and investigate efficient and effective methods that are inspired by multigrid, which is one of the most successful classes of numerical methods for solving large-scale scientific computing problems. <br/><br/>The technical goal of this project is to carry out computational and theoretical investigations in algebraic and nonlinear multigrid methods for hypergraph partitioning motivated by various problems in the areas of computational mathematics and scientific computing. These investigations aim to provide breakthroughs in practical computational capabilities, modeling matrix-matrix (vector) multiplication, matrix partitioning, and general load-balancing for scientific computing applications. The results of the project will also deepen understanding of theory of multigrid methods applied to computational discrete optimization. In recent decades, multigrid-inspired methods for graphs (also known as multilevel) led to important breakthroughs in a variety of computational problems. However, in contrast to the multigrid-inspired methods for graph cut-based problems (such as graph partitioning and linear arrangement), multigrid-inspired methods for hypergraphs are relatively unexplored. This project aims to develop theory related to multigrid-inspired methods for discrete optimization problems on graphs and hypergraphs, of great practical importance in computational mathematics.
The investigators are conducting fundamental research focused on the synthesis of a series of novel "vine-like" robots. Vines are found throughout the natural (and human-made) world. They have unique capabilities allowing them to adapt to congested spaces and/or irregular terrain, significant voids, and unpredictable dynamic environmental interactions. Robots emulating the capabilities of vines can extend the reach (literally and figuratively) of robotics into previously inaccessible domains and applications. This offers new and useful solutions across a wide range of endeavors important to society, including persistent environmental monitoring, field archaeology, medical procedures, and urban disaster relief.<br/><br/>Exploiting their combined expertise in continuum robots and biological vines, the PIs are collaboratively designing, modeling, creating, and demonstrating a series of innovative vine-like continuum robots. Coordinated basic research in the laboratory at Clemson and the greenhouse at Cornell is providing inspiration from biology for the vine-like robots, and returning insight from engineering to biology regarding open questions on mechanisms governing biological vines. The key innovations in robot hardware, representing a significant new direction in continuum robotics, are enabling unprecedented workspace reach via augmentation with passive and active appendages (artificial thorns/tendrils), and creating the ability to "branch" into new continuum "growth". The novel navigation and manipulation capabilities enabled by these hardware innovations are providing both new theoretical insight and innovative operational modes for robots. The overall results are pushing the range of access of robots to a new level, currently beyond the reach of the field.
Subdivision-based algorithms can solve problems from a wide variety of applications in mathematics, computer science, and the sciences. For example, these types of algorithms are used in computer graphics, mathematical biology, computational geometry, mathematical modeling, robotics, machine learning, and mathematical computation. Subdivision-based algorithms are popular because they are relatively easy to describe and implement on a computer, and they are often efficient in practice. The work in this project is to quantify and improve the effectiveness of these types of algorithms. By studying the efficiency and providing algorithms to approximate solutions to problems which are typically considered intractable, the results of this project provide techniques which can be applied to practical problems throughout the sciences.<br/><br/>Subdivision-based algorithms recursively and adaptively subdivide a given domain into smaller regions until, in each smaller region, the behavior of a problem-specific feature can be determined. Subdivision-based algorithms are frequently used because they are parallelizable, recursive, and adaptive. More precisely, they use weak local tests and perform more subdivisions only near difficult features. These features that make subdivision-based algorithms practical, however, also make them challenging to study. For example, local tests make global topological correctness difficult and adaptive (non-uniform) subdivisions make the number of subdivisions difficult to bound. This project addresses both of the important questions of complexity and correctness for subdivision-based algorithms in the following two ways: (1) Using continuous amortization as a uniform method to compute the complexity of subdivision-based algorithms. (2) Developing topologically certified subdivision-based algorithms for geometric applications on algebraic varieties. This project extends the technique of continuous amortization to many different types of algorithms including iterative and two-dimensional subdivisions; additionally, the project develops subdivision-based algorithms to approximate previously intractable problems such as the medial axis and intersections of surfaces.
With the help of Online Social Networks (OSNs), people share personal and public information and make social connections with friends, coworkers, colleagues, family and even with strangers. As a result, OSNs store a huge amount of sensitive information about users and their interactions. To protect such information, privacy control has been treated as a central feature of OSNs. Although OSNs currently provide some privacy control mechanisms allowing users to regulate access to information they share, users, unfortunately, have no control over data others share. For instance, if a user posts a comment in a friend's space, s/he cannot specify which users can view the comment. Similarly, when a user uploads a photo and tags friends who appear in the photo, the tagged friends cannot restrict who can see this photo. Since multiple associated users may have different privacy concerns over the shared data, privacy conflicts occur and the lack of collaborative privacy control increases the potential risk of leaking sensitive information by friends to the public. To address such a critical issue, it is essential to accommodate diverse privacy control requirements coming from multiple associated users for collaboratively managing the shared data in OSNs. The new techniques developed in this project will substantially enhance the state-of-the-art in privacy-aware data sharing in OSNs and will have implications for the design of future collaborative sharing systems in OSNs. Moreover, since privacy practices in many other collaborative environments, such as electronic health records and financial data sharing also require multiple users to co-manage the privacy of information, the fundamental results generated by this project could be expanded to those collaborative environments beyond social networks. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to seek an effective and flexible mechanism to enable privacy-aware collaborative data sharing in OSNs. To this end, the researchers will first analyze data sharing associated with multiple users in OSNs, and articulate several typical scenarios of privacy conflicts to understand the risks posed by those conflicts. To mitigate risks caused by privacy conflicts, the researchers will investigate a collaborative data sharing mechanism to support the specification and enforcement of multiple privacy concerns. In addition, a systematic conflict detection and resolution mechanism will be created and evaluated with respect to its ability to cope with privacy conflicts occurring in collaborative management of data sharing in OSNs. The conflict resolution in the project attempts to balance the need for privacy protection and users' desire for information sharing by quantitative analysis of privacy risk and sharing loss. Another compelling feature of the proposed approach is the support of both theoretical and empirical analyses on privacy control in OSNs. The researchers will analyze the strategic behaviors of rational users using a game-theoretic model, where each player aims at accommodating her/his privacy concerns as much as possible by adjusting her/his privacy setting in collaborative data sharing in OSNs. Furthermore, the researchers will carry out empirical analysis for practical user behaviors and contrast it with the theoretical analysis in collaborative data sharing, articulating the gap between the theoretic model and real user behaviors. More details about this project, including experimental data and curricular materials can be found on the project website (www.cs.clemson.edu/~hongxih/projects/gpc).
The relatively flat southeastern US coastal plain, from North Carolina to Texas, is particularly susceptible to sea level rise. As sea level rises, the boundary between the low-lying coastal freshwater forest and high marsh moves upslope. Highly productive forested wetlands are replaced successively by degraded wetlands and eventually by coastal salt marsh. Not only does saltwater intrusion change vegetation composition, high halide levels (called halogens) can interact with the large pool of soil organic matter through halogenation processes that are still poorly understood. These halogenation processes are important to elucidate as they produce volatile halocarbons that act as ozone-depleting compounds in the atmosphere. Halogenation of organic matter may also affect the decomposition rates of organic matter. This interdisciplinary research will improve our understanding of chlorine and bromine biogeochemistry and demonstrate the importance of halogens in carbon cycling. This collaborative research represents a new collaboration between four investigators with different specialties from universities in the northeast, southeast and western United States. Graduate and undergraduate students will have opportunities to interact with citizen scientists in an on-going EarthWatch project and learn how to disseminate the scientific knowledge to the general public. This study will also raise the awareness of the impacts of sea level rise on low-lying coastal areas in the Southeastern US.<br/><br/>Halogens have historically been treated as inert elements in natural humification processes. However, numerous recent studies have demonstrated that chlorine and bromine are active components in C cycles. The overall goal of this research is to assess novel decomposition process routes of terrestrial organic matter in forested wetlands with high levels of chloride and bromide. The research project includes both field investigations and controlled experiments to determine the impacts of sea level rise on C and halogen biogeochemical cycles along salinity gradients in Winyah Bay, South Carolina. Fluxes of halogenated ozone depleting C compounds and greenhouse gases, as well as concentrations of organochlorine and organobromine in soil and litter and water will be quantified along salinity transects and within controlled plots. The research team contends that the novel method of determining X-ray absorption near edge structures (XANES) of halogenated organic matter in soil and detritus layers, coupled with measurements of halocarbon emission and composition in water using Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance Mass Spectrometry (FT-ICR MS), will be useful in understanding the roles of halogens in C cycling. Determining the seasonal variation of halocarbon in air, soil, and water from freshwater forested wetland, salt-degraded wetland, and salt marsh sites, representing the transition of coastal wetland under sea level rise, will be useful in developing a mechanistic and landscape understanding of how sea level rise affects decomposition, humification, and halogenation processes of terrestrial organic matter in coastal wetlands. The controlled field experiments using different concentrations of chloride and bromide waters would illustrate their roles in humification and decomposition processes.
1531041 (Klotz). This INSPIRE project is jointly funded by the Environmental Sustainability program in the CBET Division in the ENG Directorate, the Decision, Risk, and Management Sciences program in the SES Division of the SBE Directorate, and the Office of Integrative Activities. The project will extend - to upstream, multi-stakeholder decision making for sustainability - the study of interventions designed to alleviate decision biases such as framing effects and social norms. This topic will be studied in the context of defaults, or starting points, in development decisions for physical infrastructure, which has long term impacts on various sustainability concerns. Such decisions in infrastructure, as in other domains, are guided by decision aids including rating systems that do not take full advantage of advances in behavioral sciences, in part because this is an area where interdisciplinary exchange of methods, problems, and solutions has been rare. Through a collaboration that was established by the NSF RCN SUSSTAIN, this project will examine whether and how default options presented to infrastructure designers can help them overcome barriers to the selection of more sustainable options. <br/><br/>Intentionally designed defaults will be studied in Envision, a leading rating system for sustainable infrastructure. The research plan follows an iterative process that begins with experimental work to test a series of default interventions, with students and professionals, using replicas of actual infrastructure development decisions. Experiments will test the extent to which behavioral science theories translate to upstream, multi-stakeholder decisions, in particular whether choice defaults influence such decisions, and through which of three channels: the cognitive energy required to make a decision; perceptions that the default is the recommended or social norm option; and by framing the outcome as a loss or gain. Experiments will also explore whether disclosing interventions diminishes their effect. Semi-structured interviews with decision makers will complement the experiments to explore the relative influence of the choice defaults compared to technical and economic considerations and compared to stakeholders' differing goals, importance weightings, and tradeoff values. This project is set up to yield educational case studies to infuse research insights into engineering and behavioral science curricula.
By the end of the decade, the US Department of Transportation (DOT) will likely require all new vehicles to be Connected Vehicles (CV), capable of communicating with other vehicles and roadside infrastructure through wireless communications in order to reduce the number of crashes and save lives. The crash avoidance applications supported by vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) connectivity exchange safety critical information such as speed, location and direction of movement to assess the crash risk based on the proximity of vehicles. While standards such as Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) will play a key role, other technologies such as WiFi, LTE (cellular), or other emerging technologies, can lower overall systems cost as well as supplement the availability, coverage, and peak data rate requirements of DSRC-based systems. The South Carolina Connected Vehicle Testbed (SC-CVT) is located along a 10-mile segment of Interstate I-85 near Clemson's International Center for Automotive Research (ICAR) campus in Greenville South Carolina. Two specific example CV applications that will be developed are traffic incident detection and queue warning. These two applications provide a convenient starting point for illustrating how CV applications can benefit from advanced network technology that integrates multiple wireless technologies in a CV system.<br/><br/>Heterogeneous networks (HetNets) are networks that integrate and exploit multiple concurrently available networking technologies. For critical applications requiring resource allocation optimization in order to meet safety-driven performance requirements. This project is using a combination of Software Defined Networking, local computing provided by GENI racks, and control based on statistical learning theory to demonstrate optimized HetNet operation on the SC-CVT.
